Contents lists available at [www.sciencedirect.com](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/journal/09552219)

# Journal of the European Ceramic Society

j ou rnal homepa ge: [www.elsevier.com/locate/jeurceramsoc](http://www.elsevier.com/locate/jeurceramsoc)

# Crack healing induced electrical and mechanical properties recovery in a Ti2SnC ceramic

Shibo Li <sup>a</sup>,∗, Guoping Bei b, Xiaodong Chena, Linquan Zhanga, Yang Zhoua, Mirza Mackovi ˇ c´ c, Erdmann Spiecker c, Peter Greil <sup>b</sup>

- <sup>a</sup> Center of Materials Science and Engineering, School of Mechanical and Electronic Control Engineering, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing 100044, China
- <sup>b</sup> Institute of Glass and Ceramics, Department of Materials Science, University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, Martensstr. 5, 91058 Erlangen, Germany
- <sup>c</sup> Institute of Micro- and Nanostructure Research (WW9) & Center for Nanoanalysis and Electron Microscopy (CENEM), Department of Materials Science and Engineering, FAU Erlangen-Nürnberg, Cauerstr. 6, 91058 Erlangen, Germany

### a r t i c l e i n f o

Article history: Received 9 August 2015 Accepted 15 September 2015 Available online 1 October 2015

Keywords: Carbides Microstructure Electrical conductivity Mechanical properties Electron microscopy

### a b s t r a c t

Ceramics are able to heal cracks and flaws by triggering local sintering (internal cracks) or oxidation reaction (surface cracks) which may induce the recovery of mechanical strength. Crack healing in ceramics, however, is limited to micro-sized cracks and requires elevated temperatures (above 1000 ◦C) and long time periods even up to 100 h. In this work we report on accelerated crack healing of a Ti2SnC ceramic which is capable to repair thermal shock induced cracks at a relatively low temperature of 800 ◦C within only 1 h. After healing treatment both the low flexural strength and electrical conductivity measured on the damaged material after quenching were almost fully recovered. Furthermore, Ti2SnC exhibits repeatable healing capability which offers a high potential for developing durable ceramics with prolonged lifetime under harsh thermal conditions.

© 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

### **1. Introduction**

Research on ceramics able to restore mechanical damage by crack healing was inspired by biological healing processes [\[1–5\].](#page-6-0) Though in contrast to biological healing processes ceramic materials require an external stimulus (usually high temperature) to cause closure or filling of the crack space either by mass transport (sintering) or phase formation (oxidation reaction). Crack healing or self-healing is often used to characterize this behavior. Crack healing in ceramics has been studied on single oxide crystals [\[6–8\],](#page-6-0) amorphous silicate glasses [\[9–10\]](#page-7-0) and polycrystalline oxide as well as non-oxide materials [\[11–17\].](#page-7-0) Recently, some ternary carbides such as Ti3AlC2, Ti2AlC, and Cr2AlC (also called MAX phases where M denotes an early transition metal, A is a mostly IIIA or IVA group element, and X is either C or N) were demonstrated to exhibit efficient crack healing capability at 1100–1200 ◦C in air atmosphere even for rather long cracks up to 1–7 mm [\[18–21\].](#page-7-0) Filling of the cracks by the formation of solid oxide reaction products such as Al2O3, TiO2 and Cr2O3 was identified as the main healing mechanism for surface cracks accessible for air to penetrate. Although some MAX phase ceramics can heal millimeter-sized cracks in a short period of time, yet oxidation-induced crack healing still requires high temperatures exceeding 1000 ◦C. In order to lower the healing temperature of MAX phases, Ti2AC with the element on the A-site being a metal element of low melting temperature (A= Ga, Cd, Sn, In and Pb) might be of interest since a low cohesion as well as migration energy of the A-element [\[22\]](#page-7-0) may favor mobilization and oxidation reaction at lower temperatures. Ti2SnC is one of the most attractive materials because it is damage tolerant, corrosion resistant, easily machinable, and it has high thermal and electrical conductivity (4–14 <sup>×</sup> 106 -<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> m−1) [\[23–25\].](#page-7-0) Ti2SnC was demonstrated to start to oxidize in air at 300 ◦C [\[26\].](#page-7-0) Accordingly healing of the Sn-containing Ti2Al(1−<sup>x</sup>)SnxC solid solutions was reported to be accomplished below 1000 ◦C [\[27\].](#page-7-0) Exploration of crack healing is of particular interest for extending the fields of engineering and functional applications of the group of Ti2AC ceramic materials.

In this work we report on the recovery of the mechanical and electrical properties of Ti2SnC by healing in air atmosphere at relatively low temperature and within a short period. The crack healing was studied on materials containing patterns of surface cracks which were generated by thermal shock damage. The microstructural evolution of the crack filling with solid oxidation products was analyzed by scanning and transmission electron microscopy techniques.

<sup>∗</sup> Corresponding author. Fax: +86 10 51685554. E-mail address: [shbli1@bjtu.edu.cn](mailto:shbli1@bjtu.edu.cn) (S. Li).

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Fig. 1.** XRD patterns of  $\text{Ti}_2\text{SnC}$  before (a) and after oxidation at (b)  $600\,^{\circ}\text{C}$  and (c)  $800\,^{\circ}\text{C}$  for 1 h in air. The main peaks corresponding to  $\text{SnO}_2$  and  $\text{TiO}_2$  are marked by dashed and dotted lines, respectively.

**Fig. 2.** Recovered electrical conductivity as a function of quenching and healing temperature. The inset shows multiple shock cracks on the surface after quenching at 700 °C.

#### 2. Experimental details

### 2.1. Material preparation

 $Ti_2SnC$  was prepared by hot pressing a mixture of Ti (<45  $\mu$ m, >99.2% purity, General Research Institute for Nonferrous Metals, China), Sn (<75  $\mu$ m, >99.5% purity, Beijing Reagent Company (BRC), China) and C (graphite, <45  $\mu$ m, >99.5% purity, BRC, China) powders with a molar ratio of 2:1:1 at 1250 °C with 30 MPa for 1 h in vacuum. The dense  $Ti_2SnC$  samples were diamond cut into rect-

**Fig. 3.** Flexural strengths of quenched samples before and after healing at  $800\,^{\circ}\text{C}$  for 1 h.

**Fig. 4.** Electrical conductivity as a function of quenching and healing cycle. In each cycle, samples were quenched at  $700\,^{\circ}$ C in water and then healed at  $800\,^{\circ}$ C for 1 h in air

angular bars with a dimension of  $4\,\mathrm{mm} \times 3\,\mathrm{mm} \times 36\,\mathrm{mm}$ . The bars were ground with 1200-grit SiC paper and then polished to  $0.25\,\mu\mathrm{m}$  by diamond paste and finally cleaned thoroughly using ultrasonic bath and ethanol. One set of polished bars, denoted as virginal bars, were used to measure the initial flexural strength and electrical conductivity, and to perform oxidation and quench tests.

### 2.2. Damaging and crack healing

Oxidation tests were performed by exposing bar specimens to air atmosphere for 1 h in a tube furnace (TSK-5-14, Beijing, China) at temperatures ranging from  $500\,^{\circ}\text{C}$  to  $800\,^{\circ}\text{C}$ . The thickness and composition of the surface scale were determined to derive kinetic data for the crack healing investigation.

Artificial crack patterns were generated by thermal shock quenching. The sample bars were placed in an electrically heated tube furnace (TSK-5-14, Beijing, China) and held at 525–725 °C for 10 min to assure temperature equilibration. After quenching into water at 25 °C thermal shock induced crack patterns developed. The damaged bars were annealed in the same tube furnace at 700 °C and 800 °C for 1 h in air to heal the thermal shock induced cracks. Each quench followed by heat treatment is referred to as one cycle of

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Fig. 5.** SEM images of the polished surface of 700 ◦C-shocked Ti2SnC after healing at 800 ◦C for 1 h. (a) a low magnification SEM image, (b) a high magnification image taken from the dashed rectangle, (c) WDS line scan of elemental distribution perpendicular to the crack plane of a large crack near the surface.

healing. Multiple healing involved up to four cycles of quenching followed by subsequent healing applying the same temperature, time and atmosphere conditions.

### 2.3. Recovery of properties

The initial strength, the residual strength and the recovered strength values were measured on the virginal, damaged and healed bars, respectively. The test bars were loaded in three-point bending mode applying a span size and a crosshead speed of 30 mm and 0.5 mm/min, respectively. Mean strength values were derived from a minimum of three samples. The AC electrical conductivity was measured at room temperature of 25 ◦C on a milli-ohmmeter (Aglient 4338B, Keysight Technologies, Santa Clara, CA) with an accuracy of ±0.4%.

# 2.4. Crack microstructure evolution

The microstructures of the virginal, damaged and healed samples were characterized by a field emission SEM (FESEM, Helios NanoLab 600i FIB Workstation, Eindhoven, Netherlands) equipped with an energy-dispersive spectrometer system (EDS). Crystalline phases were identified by X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis (D/Max 2200 PC diffractometer, Tokyo, Japan) applying monochromatic Cu K radiation. The chemical composition of the crack filling phase was analyzed by means of wavelength dispersive spectrometry (WDS) on an electron probe micro analysis system (EPMA-1600, Shimadzu, Japan). An accelerating voltage of 15 kV and a beam current of 10.4 nA were applied. The local distribution of the reaction phases filling the crack space was characterized through electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD, Oxford Instruments INCA, Oxford, UK).

For a detailed analysis of the reaction-formed microstructure in the healed cracks, focused ion beam (FIB) cross-sections were prepared with a dual-beam FIB/SEM (Helios NanoLab 600i FIB Workstation, Eindhoven, Netherlands) by using a Ga ion source operating at 30 kV. Thin samples representing a cross-sectional cut perpendicular to the crack elongation direction were analyzed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Thereby a Titan3 Themis 300 and a Philips CM30 TWIN/STEM (FEI Company, Netherlands) were used. The Titan3 Themis 300 is equipped with a high<span id="page-3-0"></span>brightness field-emission gun (X-FEG), a monochromator system (energy resolution 0.2 eV), two Cs-correctors (probe and image side) from CEOS (Corrected Electron Optical Systems GmbH), a Super-X detector for energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectroscopy, a Gatan Imaging Filter, a high-angle annular dark-field (HAADF) detector and a 4 k CMOS camera. This microscope was operated at 200 kV acceleration voltage. The CM30 is with a LaB6 filament and charge couple device camera with an image size of 2048 × 2048 pixels and was operated at 300 kV acceleration voltage. TEM images and electron diffraction patterns were processed with the free available software ImageJ(version 1.48r) and the commercially available software DigitalMicrographTM. The evaluation of the electron diffraction patterns was performed by simulating the experimental patterns with the software JEMS (java version 3.5505U2010) and by using the inorganic crystal structure database (ICSD).

The Gibbs free energy of formed oxides was estimated by a HSC Chemistry software (Vers. 7, Outukumpu Research Oy, Pori, Finland).

#### **3. Results**

## 3.1. Oxidation of Ti2SnC

The Ti2SnC hot-pressed at 1250 ◦C is characterized by an average particle size of 1.5 m and a relative density of 98%. Ti2SnC is the dominating phase with only minor fractions of Sn and Ti6Sn5 detected by XRD, [Fig.](#page-1-0) 1(a). Thermally activated decomposition of Ti2SnC is likely to yield intermetallic Ti–Sn phases as well as elemental Sn during sintering or hot-pressing at elevated temperatures [\[26,28–30\].](#page-7-0) Annealing of bulk Ti2SnC samples in air at 600 ◦C revealed SnO2 with a little amount of TiO2 as the major surface oxidation products, [Fig.](#page-1-0) 1(b). The appearance of Ti2SnC as shown in [Fig.](#page-1-0) 1(b) indicates that the thickness of the oxide scale should be thinner, which is about 2 m. Elemental Sn was still detected even at an elevated temperature of 800 ◦C [\(Fig.](#page-1-0) 1(c)). Since at 800 ◦C accelerated growth of the oxide scale gave rise to an oxide layer thickness of about 10 m (compared to 2 m at 600 ◦C) and an increasing molar ratio of TiO2/SnO2, we may exclude that remaining Sn from the bulk caused the XRD signal. Though a high (ambient) oxygen potential on and near the surface is expected to trigger oxidation reactions ofthe metallic elements to form the corresponding metal oxides, while metallic Sn was detected as well. The preferential oxidation of Ti prior to Sn was recently discussed to a potential reason for the presence of metallic Sn when the local oxygen potential is sufficient to oxidize Ti but too small for Sn to form SnO2 [\[31\].](#page-7-0) This might be of particular interest for oxidative healing of a surface crack in Ti2SnC within which the oxygen potential may differ from the surface to the crack tip in the bulk.

### 3.2. Crack healing and recovery of fracture strength and electrical conductivity

One cycle of quenching at different temperatures results in a decrease in the residual electrical conductivity [\(Fig.](#page-1-0) 2). The electrical conductivity after thermal shock at 700 ◦C decreased by 7% as compared to the initial value due to the formation of multiple cracks on the quenched surfaces (inset in [Fig.](#page-1-0) 2). The maximum width of cracks is about 1 m. Theoretically, a crack with a maximum opening distance of 1 m is completely filled by oxides, each face of crack needs atleast 0.5 m of scale in thickness. So an oxidation layer with 2 m in thickness formed at 600 ◦C may be enough to fill the crack completely. However it was found that after healing the quenched samples at 800 ◦C the recovered conductivities are almost close to the original value of 4.34 <sup>×</sup> 106 -<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> m−<sup>1</sup> ([Fig.](#page-1-0) 2).

**Fig. 6.** Back scattered electron (BSE) SEM images of the polished surface of the sample after 4 cycles of quenching at 700 ◦C and healing at 800 ◦C.(a) a low magnification BSE-SEM image. (b) a high magnification BSE-SEM image showing unhealed section of cracks, denoted by arrows.

[Fig.](#page-1-0) 3 shows the flexural strength as a function of quenching and healing temperature. After quenching at 500 ◦C, the residual flexural strengthdecreases from205 MPa ofthe initial strengthto about 57 MPa. Such damage leads to a drop of 72% in flexural strength. After one cycle of healing at 800 ◦C, the recovered strengths are greatly improved, close to the initial strength or even higher.

To demonstrate multiple healing behavior in a simple monolithic Ti2SnC ceramic, the relationship between the recovery electrical conductivity and healing cycle was investigated. [Fig.](#page-1-0) 4 shows the variation of the electrical conductivity after multiple cycle healing treatments. The recovered electrical conductivity after one quenching and healing cycle attains a value close to the original value of 4.34 <sup>×</sup> 106 -<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> m−1. With increasing number of quenching and healing cycles both the values for the damaged and the recovered Ti2SnC materials are reduced and the healing effect becomes less pronounced.

# 3.3. Crack microstructure evolution

[Fig.](#page-2-0) 5 shows the morphologies of the crack-healed zones after one cycle healing at 800 ◦C for 1 h. A main wider crack emanating from the sample edge and many small secondary cracks (marked by arrows) are all completely healed [\(Fig.](#page-2-0) 5(a)). In the wider crack, some sections are mainly filled by TiO2 (black sections) and some are filled with a mixture of TiO2 and SnO2, identified by EDS and EPMA. An enlarged micrograph clearly shows that TiO2 covers the crack opposite faces whereas SnO2 distributes preferentially in the center of the crack space ([Fig.](#page-2-0) 5(b)). [Fig.](#page-2-0) 5(c) displays a representative WDS line scan of the elemental distribution measured perpendicular to the crack plane. A distinct depletion of carbon and enrichment of oxygen gives clear indi-

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Fig. 7.** Cross-sectional BSE-SEM images of healed zones after 4 cycles of healing at 800 ◦C. (a) larger crack opening filled by the mixture of TiO2 and SnO2; (b) thinner cracks filled with Sn; (c) EBSD micrograph of metallic Sn distribution in a small crack area.

cation of the oxidation reaction products filling the crack space. Close to the crack surfaces the high titanium signals on both sides of the crack combined with the Sn signal in the centre of the crack confirm the evolution of gradient microstructure with TiO2 covering the crack surfaces and SnO2 filling the centre region of the crack.

[Fig.](#page-3-0) 6(a) shows the crack pattern developed after multiple healing (4 cycles). A crack network consisting of long (major) cracks extending from one surface through the bulk to opposite surface and small cracks distributed between the major cracks was formed. The major cracks display a crack opening up to 40 m near the surface whereas the secondary cracks reveal very small crack opening of a few micrometers or less. After 4 cycles of healing at 800 ◦C for 1 h, some sections of major cracks were no longer filled completely, as marked by arrows ([Fig.](#page-3-0) 6(b)).

Cross-sectional SEM images further show the healed damage zones in the bulk after 4 cycles of healing at 800 ◦C for 1 h, as shown in Fig. 7. Both selected areas near the surface as well as at a distance of approximately 1 mm from the surface display complete filling of the crack space with the oxidation reaction products. Near the surface with wide crack opening a layered phase distribution is observed with TiO2 covering the crack surfaces and SnO2 filling the center of the crack space, Fig. 7(a). In the small secondary cracks emanating from the main crack, only elemental Sn but no SnO2 was detected (Fig. 7(b)). The presence of Sn was confirmed by EBSD measurements (Fig. 7(c)). The presence of Sn in the narrow

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Fig. 8.** TEM analysis of the healed Ti2SnC sample. (a) Representative HAADF-STEM image showing the healed zone in a major crack. The dotted line in (a) indicates the boundary between the Ti2SnC and the healed crack zone; (b) is an EDX spectrum of the area marked with the blue square in (a). The Cu signal arises from the copper grid used to mount the FIB lamella into the TEM holder, while the Ga signal stems from Ga-ions used for FIB milling; (c–f) are SAED patterns of the regions marked with the dotted circles and letters (c–f) in (a). The SAED patterns are obtained by tilting the specimen into the respective zone axis (ZA) in independent alignment experiments. The SAED pattern in (c) is valid for the [0 1 2 1] ZA of hexagonal Ti2SnC (ICSD 86,812), while (d) is valid for the [1 2 0] ZA of tetragonal Sn (ICSD 43,415) and the [1 3 1 0] ZA of tetragonal SnO2 (ICSD 9163). Finally, the SAED pattern in (e) is valid for the [0 0 1] ZA of cubic TiC (ICSD 1546), while the SAED pattern in (f) is valid for the [1 0 0] of tetragonal TiO2 (ICSD 9161). (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)

crack-healed zones should play a key role in the improvement of the residual electrical conductivity.

Fig. 8 shows the TEM analysis of one representative area of a large healed crack. The atomic number contrast of HAADF scanning TEM (STEM) in Fig. 8(a) revealed that the large healed crack zone, which is located on the right side in the image and separated by a grain boundary from Ti2SnC (left side in the image), is filled with a mixture of various elements and/or phases. The EDX spectrum in Fig. 8(b), which was obtained in the area marked with the blue square in Fig. 8(a), indicates the variety of elements present in this large healed crack area and underlines the complexity ofthe healed crack zone. Furthermore, the complex chemical composition of the healed zone is in line with different contrasts visible in the HAADF-STEM image in Fig. 8(a) and observations by SEM-EDX, XRD and <span id="page-6-0"></span>EBSD described in the text above. In order to identify the phases present in the large crack selected area electron diffraction (SAED) analysis was performed. The corresponding SAED patterns were obtained in the areas marked with the respective letters (c-f) and white dotted circles in Fig. 8(a). The SAED pattern in Fig. 8(c) confirms Ti<sub>2</sub>SnC with hexagonal crystal structure as the main phase. In the healed crack zone the presence of metallic Sn and SnO<sub>2</sub>, both having tetragonal crystal structure, is observed (see Fig. 8(d)). In particular the presence of metallic Sn in this large crack is interesting, as it was observed by SEM-EDX and EBSD analysis only in the small cracks; see Fig. 7. Moreover, SAED revealed the presence of cubic TiC and tetragonal TiO<sub>2</sub> within the healed crack zone (see Fig. 8(e) and (f), respectively). Noteworthy, along the grain boundary between the Ti<sub>2</sub>SnC phase and the filled crack area (healed zone) preferentially a bright contrast is visible with HAADF-STEM, which indicates segregation of an element and/or phase along this grain boundary. The darker areas as marked exemplarily with the white arrows in Fig. 8(a) indicate the presence of lighter elements and/or hollow interiors (pores) within the healed crack zone. Both aspects were, however, not followed in more detail in the present work, but might be of interest for a following study.

### 4. Discussion

Penetration of oxygen from the environmental atmosphere into the crack causes Ti<sub>2</sub>SnC at the crack surface to undergo an oxidation reaction which was reported to follow two stages [26,27,32].

At temperatures below 800 °C destabilization of the MAX phase crystal lattice tends to release Sn leaving a distorted  $Ti_2Sn_{1-x}C$  phase (Reaction (1)).

$$Ti_2SnC \rightarrow Ti_2Sn_{1-x}C + xSn$$
 (1)

At higher temperatures  $TiO_2$  formation tends to be dominative (Reaction (2)) due to the lower standard Gibbs free energy of  $TiO_2$  formation ( $\Delta G_f$  (800 °C) = -750 kJ/mol) compared to that of  $SnO_2$  ( $\Delta G_f$  (800 °C) = -358 kJ/mol).

$$Ti_2Sn_{1-x}C + 2.5 O_2 \rightarrow 2TiO_2 + (1-x)Sn + CO$$
 (2)

If the oxygen potential is high enough ( $pO_2 > 10^{-16}$  Pa at  $1000 \,^{\circ}$ C [33]), SnO<sub>2</sub> may be formed as observed in large cracks at least near to the surface (Reaction (3)).

$$Sn + O_2 \rightarrow SnO_2 \tag{3}$$

At low oxygen potential far from the surface or in secondary cracks with small crack opening, however, elemental Sn may be left [34]. The high mobility of Sn in  ${\rm Ti}_2{\rm SnC}$  driven by its low migration energy of 0.66 eV [22] as well as fluid flow transport above its low melting point of 232 °C seems to favor transport of Sn even into small cracks and micro cracks with narrow crack opening.

Furthermore, a high mobility of Sn may favor redistribution of residual stresses in the healed crack zone that may generate due to thermal expansion mismatch upon cooling. The coefficients of thermal expansion (CTE from room temperature to 1000 °C) for  $Ti_2SnC$ ,  $TiO_2$ ,  $SnO_2$  and Sn are  $10 \times 10^{-6}/K$  [35],  $7 \times 10^{-6}/K$  (along a-axis direction) and  $9.4 \times 10^{-6}$ /K (along c-axis direction) [36],  $3.7 \times 10^{-6}$ /K (along *c*-axis) and  $4.38 \times 10^{-6}$ /K(along *a*-axis) [37], and  $22 \times 10^{-6}$  /K [38], respectively. Since the CTEs of the crystalline oxides are less than that of the Ti<sub>2</sub>SnC matrix compressive stresses will build up around the crack which tend to increase crack growth resistance resulting in effective strength recovery. In contrast tensile matrix stresses should form around small cracks filled with Sn. Since the large cracks will dominate the mechanical recovery no detrimental effect on the mechanical properties might be assumed by the presence of Sn in the small secondary cracks. However, Sn filling in the thinner cracks might be an important mechanism

for the recovery of electrical conductivity recovery observed upon single cycle of healing treatment. The reduction of electrical conductivity recovery during multiple healing may be induced by the crack pattern (length and number of cracks) evolution, more reaction products TiO<sub>2</sub> and SnO<sub>2</sub> filling the crack space and unfilled sections in wider cracks with increasing number of thermal shock cycles.

The presence of metallic Sn in the healed cracks should play a key role in recovery of the electrical conductivity. Both  $SnO_2$  and rutile-TiO $_2$  are semiconductors with electrical conductivities of  $1.82\times 10^{-6}~\Omega^{-1}~m^{-1}$  and  $\sim 10^{-8}~\Omega^{-1}~m^{-1}$  [39,40], respectively, far lower than  $4.34\times 10^6~\Omega^{-1}~m^{-1}$  of Ti $_2$ SnC. Hence we may expect a crack filled with TiO $_2$  and SnO $_2$  to act as a barrier for electron transport in Ti $_2$ SnC giving rise to limited recovery of the conductivity upon healing. Due to the high electrical conductivity of Sn metal the healed crack exhibits a low resistance to electron transport which may explain the recovery of the electrical conductivity after healing in air.

Based on the above analysis, it can be proposed that the MAX phases containing low melting point of A elements (A = Ga, Cd, Sn, In and Pb) can heal millimeter-sized cracks at lower temperatures in a short time period.

#### 5. Conclusions

Healing of thermal shock induced crack patterns in the  $\rm Ti_2SnC$  ceramic was investigated. During annealing in air atmosphere oxygen may penetrate into cracks and react with  $\rm Ti_2SnC$  on the crack surface. In large cracks near the surface a high oxygen potential triggers the formation of  $\rm TiO_2$  and  $\rm SnO_2$  filling the crack space. Limitation of oxygen transport in small secondary cracks gives rise to a low oxygen potential and metallic Sn remains. Due to restoration of solid contact in the crack, flexural strength and electrical conductivity recovered almost to the values of the virgin material after healing at  $800\,^{\circ}\rm C$  for 1 h. The capability of healing even large cracks and crack patterns at moderate temperature and within a short time period offers a high potential for improving the performance and lifetime of the  $\rm Ti_2SnC$  ceramic applied at elevated temperatures in air atmosphere.

### Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant Nos. 51372015 and 51172015, and SRF for ROCS, SEM, and Beijing Government Funds for the Constructive Project of Central Universities. Financial support from DFG-grant no. GR 961/33-1 is gratefully acknowledged. Financial support by the DFG through the Cluster of Excellence EXC 315 "Engineering of Advanced Materials" (EAM) and the research training group GRK1896 "In situ microscopy with electrons, X-rays and scanning probes" is gratefully acknowledged.

### References

- [1] S. van der Zwaag, N.H. van Dijk, H.M. Jonkers, S.D. Mookhoek, W.G. Sloof, Self-healing behaviour in man-made engineering materials: bioinspired but taking into account their intrinsic character, Philos. Trans. R. Soc. A 367 (2009) 1689–1704.
- [2] S. van der Zwaag, Self Healing Materials an Alternative Approach to 20 Centuries of Materials Science, Springer, Dordrecht, 2007.
- [3] S.K. Ghosh, Self-Healing Materials: Fundamentals, Design Strategies and Applications, WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co., Weinheim, 2009.
- [4] B.J. Blaiszik, S.L.B. Kramer, S.C. Olugebefola, J.S. Moore, N.R. Sottos, S.R. White, Self-healing polymers and composites, Annu. Rev. Mater. Res. 40 (2010) 179–211.
- [5] P. Greil, Generic principles of crack-healing ceramics, J. Adv. Ceram. 1 (2012) 249–267.
- [6] A.H. Heuer, J.P. Roberts, The influence of annealing on the strength of corundum crystals, Proc. Br. Ceram. Soc. 6 (1966) 17–27.

- <span id="page-7-0"></span>[7] [C.F.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [Yen,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [R.L.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [Coble,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [Spheroidization](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [tubular](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [voids](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [Al2O3](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [crystals](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [at](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [high](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [temperatures,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [Am.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [55](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [\(1972\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035) [507–509.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0035)
- [8] [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [Rodel,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [A.M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [Glaeser,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [High-temperature](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [healing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [lithographically](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [introduced](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [cracks](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [sapphire,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [Am.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [73](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [\(1990\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040) [592](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040)–[601.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0040)
- [9] [S.M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045) [Wiederhorn,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045) [P.R.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045) [Townsend,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045) [Crack](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045) [healing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045) [in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045) [glass,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045) [Am.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045) [53](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045) [\(1970\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045) [486–489.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0045)
- [10] [H.D.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [Ackler,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [Healing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [lithographically](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [introduced](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [cracks](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [glass](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [glass-containing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [ceramics,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [Am.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [81](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [\(1998\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050) [3093–3103.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0050)
- [11] [J.T.A.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055) [Roberts,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055) [B.J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055) [Wrona,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055) [Crack](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055) [healing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055) [in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055) [UO2,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055) [Am.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055) [56](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055) [\(1973\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055) [297](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055)–[299.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0055)
- [12] [T.K.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [Gupta,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [Crack](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [healing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [strengthening](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [thermally](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [shocked](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [alumina,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [Am.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [59](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [\(1976\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060) [259–262.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0060)
- [13] [F.F.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [Lange,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [Healing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [surface](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [cracks](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [SiC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [by](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [oxidation,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [Am.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [53](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [\(1970\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065) [290.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0065)
- [14] [T.E.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [Easler,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [R.C.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [Bradt,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [R.E.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [Tressler,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [Effects](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [oxidation](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [under](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [load](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [on](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [strength](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [distribution](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [Si3N4,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [Am.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [65](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [\(1982\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070) [317–320.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0070)
- [15] [K.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [Takahashi,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [B.S.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [Kim,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [M.C.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [Chu,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [S.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [Sato,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [K.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [Ando,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [Crack-healing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [behavior](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [static](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [fatigue](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [strength](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [Si3N4/SiC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [ceramics](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [held](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [under](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [stress](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [at](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [temperature](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [\(800,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [900,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [1000](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [◦](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075)[C\),](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [Eur.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [23](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [\(2003\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075) [1971–1978.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0075)
- [16] [K.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [Takahashi,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [Yokouchi,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [S.K.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [Lee,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [K.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [Ando,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [Crack-healing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [behavior](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [Al2O3](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [toughened](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [by](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [SiC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [whiskers,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [Am.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [86](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [\(2003\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080) [2143–2147.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0080)
- [17] [K.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [Houjou,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [K.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [Ando,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [S.P.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [Liu,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [S.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [Sato,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [Crack-healing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [oxidation](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [behavior](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [silicon](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [nitride](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [ceramics,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [Eur.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [24](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [\(2004\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085) [2329–2338.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0085)
- [18] [G.M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [Song,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [Y.T.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [Pei,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [W.G.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [Sloof,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [S.B.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [Li,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [J.Th.M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [de](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [Hosson,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [S.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [van](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [der](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [Zwaag,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [Oxidation-induced](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [crack](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [healing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [Ti3AlC2](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [ceramics,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [Scr.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [Mater.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [58](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [\(2008\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090) [13](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090)–[16.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0090)
- [19] [S.B.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [Li,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [G.M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [Song,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [C.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [Kwakernaak,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [S.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [van](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [der](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [Zwaag,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [W.G.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [Sloof,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [Multiple](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [crack](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [healing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [a](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [Ti2AlC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [ceramic,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [Eur.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [32](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [\(2012\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095) [1813](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095)–[1820.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0095)
- [20] [H.J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [Yang,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [Y.T.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [Pei,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [J.C.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [Rao,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [J.Th.M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [de](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [Hosson,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [Self-healing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [performance](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [Ti2AlC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [ceramic,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [Mater.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [Chem.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [22](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [\(2012\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100) [8304](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100)–[8313.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0100)
- [21] [S.B.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [Li,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [L.O.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [Xiao,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [G.M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [Song,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [W.G.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [Sloof,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [S.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [van](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [der](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [Zwaag,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [Oxidation](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [self-healing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [behavior](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [a](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [fine-grained](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [Cr2AlC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [ceramic,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [Am.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [96](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [\(2013\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105) [892](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105)–[899.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0105)
- [22] [B.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Liu,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [J.Y.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Wang,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Zhang,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [J.M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Wang,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [F.Z.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Li,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Y.C.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Zhou,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Theoretical](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [investigation](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [A-element](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [atom](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [diffusion](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Ti2AC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [\(A=](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Sn,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Ga,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Cd,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [In,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Pb\),](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Appl.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Phys.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [Lett.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [94](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [\(2009\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [181906,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110) [3pp.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0110)
- [23] [M.W.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [Barsoum,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [The](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [M](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115)[n](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115)[+1AX](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115)[n](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [phases:](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [a](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [new](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [class](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [solids;](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [thermodynamically](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [stable](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [nanolaminates,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [Prog.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [Solid](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [State.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [Chem.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [28](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [\(2000\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115)
- [201](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115)–[281.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0115) [24] [M.W.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [Barsoum,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [G.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [Yaroschuk,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [S.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [Tyagi,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [Fabrication](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [characterization](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [M2SnC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [\(M](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [=](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [Ti,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [Zr,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [Hf](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [Nb\),](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [Scr.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [Mater.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [37](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [\(1997\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120) [1583](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120)–[1591.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0120)
- [25] [Y.C.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [Zhou,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [H.Y.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [Dong,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [X.H.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [Wang,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [C.K.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [Yan,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [Preparation](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [Ti2SnC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [by](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [solid–liquid](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [reaction](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [synthesis](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [simultaneous](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [densification](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [method,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [Mater.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [Res.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [Innovations](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [6](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [\(2002\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125) [219–225.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0125)

- [26] [H.Y.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [Dong,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [C.K.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [Yan,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [S.Q.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [Chen,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [Y.C.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [Zhou,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [Solid–liquid](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [reaction](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [synthesis](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [thermal](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [stability](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [Ti2SnC,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [Mater.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [Chem.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [11](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [\(2001\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130) [1402](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130)–[1407.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0130)
- [27] [G.P.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [Bei,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [B.J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [Pedimonte,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [T.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [Fey,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [P.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [Greil,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [Oxidation](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [behavior](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [MAX](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [phase](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [Ti2Al\(1](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135)−[x](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135)[\)Sn](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135)[x](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135)[C](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [solid](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [solution,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [Am.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [96](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [\(2013\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135) [1359](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135)–[1362.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0135)
- [28] [S.B.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [Li,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [G.P.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [Bei,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [H.X.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [Zhai,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [Y.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [Zhou,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [Bimodal](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [microstructure](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [reaction](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [mechanism](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [Ti2SnC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [synthesized](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [by](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [high](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [temperature](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [reaction](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [using](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [Ti/Sn/C](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [Ti/Sn/TiC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [powder](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [compacts,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [Am.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [89](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [\(2006\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140) [3617–3623.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0140)
- [29] [S.B.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [Li,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [G.P.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [Bei,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [H.X.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [Zhai,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [Y.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [Zhou,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [C.W.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [Li,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [Synthesis](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [Ti2SnC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [at](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [low-temperature](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [using](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [mechanically](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [activated](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [sintering](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [process,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [Mater.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [Sci.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [Eng.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [A](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [457](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [\(2007\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145) [282](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145)–[286.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0145)
- [30] [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [Zhang,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [B.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [Liu,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [J.Y.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [Wang,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [Y.C.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [Zhou,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [Low-temperature](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [instability](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [Ti2SnC:](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [a](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [combined](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [transmission](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [electron](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [microscopy,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [differential](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [scanning](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [calorimetry,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [X-ray](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [diffraction](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [investigations,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [Mater.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [Res.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [24](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [\(2009\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150) [39–49.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0150)
- [31] [G.P.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [Bei,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [B.J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [Pedimonte,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [Pezoldt,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [Ast,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [T.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [Fey,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [Goeken,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [P.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [Greil,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [Crack](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [healing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [Ti2Al0.5Sn0.5C–Al2O3](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [composites,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [Am.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [98](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [\(2015\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155) [1604–1610.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0155)
- [32] [Y.C.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [Zhou,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [H.Y.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [Dong,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [X.H.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [Wang,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [High-temperature](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [oxidation](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [behavior](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [a](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [polycrystalline](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [Ti2SnC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [ceramic,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [Oxid.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [Met.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [61](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [\(2004\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160) [365–377.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0160)
- [33] [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0165) [Dean,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0165) [A.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0165) [Lange's](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0165) [Handbook](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0165) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0165) [Chemistry,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0165) [14th](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0165) [ed.,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0165) [McGraw-Hill,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0165) [New](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0165) [York,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0165) [1992.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0165)
- [34] [C.M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [Carney,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [Nanostructures](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [by](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [Gas-Phase](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [Reactions:](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [Growth](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [Applications,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [Ph.D](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [Thesis,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [The](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [Ohio](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [State](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [University,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170) [2006.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0170)
- [35] [T.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [El-Raghy,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [S.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [Chakraborty,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [M.W.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [Barsoum,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [Synthesis](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [characterization](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [Hf2PbC,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [Zr2PbC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [M2SnC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [\(M](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [=](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [Ti,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [Hf,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [Nb](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [or](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [Zr\),](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [Euro.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [Ceram.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [20](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [\(2000\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175) [2619](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175)–[2625.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0175)
- [36] [D.R.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [Humme,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [P.J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [Heaney,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [J.E.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [Post,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [Thermal](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [expansion](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [anatase](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [rutile](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [between](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [300](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [575K](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [using](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [synchrotron](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [powder](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [X-ray](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [diffraction,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [Powder](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [Diffr.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [22](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [\(2007\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180) [352–361.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0180)
- [37] [M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [Batzill,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [U.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [Diebold,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [The](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [surface](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [materials](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [science](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [tin](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [oxide,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [Prog.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [Surf.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [Sci.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [79](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [\(2005\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185) [47](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185)–[154.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0185)
- [38] [C.Y.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0190) [Ho,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0190) [R.E.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0190) [Taylor,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0190) [Thermal](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0190) [Expansion](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0190) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0190) [Solids,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0190) [ASM](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0190) [International,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0190) [Materials](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0190) [Park,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0190) [OH,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0190) [1998.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0190)
- [39] [F.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [Yakuphanoglu,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [Electrical](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [conductivity,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [seebeck](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [coefficient](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [optical](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [properties](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [SnO2](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [film](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [deposited](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [on](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [ITO](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [by](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [dip](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [coating,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [Alloy](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [Compd.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [470](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [\(2009\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195) [55](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195)–[59.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0195)
- [40] [Y.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [Kishi,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [K.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [Ogura,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [K.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [Kamata,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [K.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [Kamata,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [H.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [Saitoh,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [K.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [Uematsu,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [High](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [strength,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [electrically](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [conductive](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [pore-free](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [TiO2](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [ceramics](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [made](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [by](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [hot](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [isostatic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [pressing,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [Mater.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [Res.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [12](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [\(1997\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200) [1056](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200)–[1061.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0955-2219(15)30138-2/sbref0200)