Carbon 215 (2023) 118382

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

# Carbon

journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/carbon

# Research article

# Tailoring flake size and chemistry to improve impact resistance of graphene oxide thin films

Heather L. White <sup>a</sup> , Andrea Giuntoli <sup>b</sup> , Müge Fermen-Coker <sup>c</sup> , Sinan Keten <sup>a</sup>,d,<sup>∗</sup>

- <sup>a</sup> *Department of Mechanical Engineering, Northwestern University, 2145 Sheridan Road, Evanston, IL, 60208-3109, United States*
- <sup>b</sup> *Zernike Institute for Advanced Materials, University of Groningen, Nijenborgh 4, Groningen, 9747AG, Netherlands*
- <sup>c</sup> *U.S. Army Research Laboratory, Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD, 21005, United States*
- <sup>d</sup> *Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Northwestern University, 2145 Sheridan Road, Evanston, IL, 60208-3109, United States*

# A R T I C L E I N F O

#### *Keywords:* Graphene oxide Thin films Ballistic impact resistance Molecular dynamics

# A B S T R A C T

Multilayered graphene oxide (MLGO) possesses high elastic modulus and strength, as well as enhanced resistance to inter-layer sliding from functional groups. This makes it a promising candidate for impact-resistant thin films and nanocomposites. However, the effects functionalization and flake size on the physics of MLGO failure under high-strain rate impact remains to be fully understood. While laser induced projectile impact tests (LIPIT) have enabled microballistic characterization of MLGO, the dynamics of interlayer sliding processes cannot be accurately studied in physical experiments due to resolution challenges of existing techniques. Here we utilize systematically coarse-grained molecular dynamics to simulate MLGO under high-rate microballistic impact, explicitly accounting for functional group distributions while approaching micron-size specimen dimensions. In doing so, we evaluate the effects of oxidation level on the thin films' ability to dissipate ballistic energy. We additionally explore effects of varying flake size on these systems, improving on studies that only consider infinite flake dimensions. The primary failure mechanism of these thin films (consisting of relatively small flakes) is found to be sliding of the GO flakes as no bonds were broken. We discover that elevated levels of oxidation increase the amount of energy required to penetrate the film, as do larger GO flake sizes as they increase energy dissipation via friction between sliding flakes. These findings illustrate the potential for MLGO films to be tailored for maximum ballistic energy dissipation, providing a starting point to design impact-resistant GO materials for diverse applications.

## **1. Introduction**

The development of impact-resistant materials is not only relevant for conventional purposes such as defense against combat-related projectiles and shrapnel [1,2], but also for less obvious purposes such protection from space debris [3,4] which involves collisions at velocities exceeding 10 km/s [5]. It is generally agreed upon that ballistic protection materials should maximize penetration resistance while minimizing weight. In terms of the examples given, heavy materials reduce user mobility in wearable armor and increase launch weights for spacecraft. Thus, there is a need for improved ballistic protection materials that can cope with these and other extreme impact environments.

Graphene boasts astounding mechanical properties. Individual sheets have been reported to have elastic moduli of over 2 TPa [6], yet they retain sufficient flexibility to allow formation of structures ranging from multilayer (ML) stacks [7] to nanotubes [8] and even polymer-like melts [9]. Graphene is usually found in its oxidized forms, graphene oxide (GO) and graphite oxide, in which numerous hydroxide and epoxide groups are covalently bonded to one or two carbon atoms in the graphene sheets, respectively. The degree of GO's oxidation can be controlled by choosing appropriate manufacturing and postmanufacturing processes such as exfoliation and chemical or thermal treatment [10]. Mechanically, elevated levels of oxidation increase interlayer friction, preventing the sheets from sliding across each other as easily as they do in unoxidized graphene [11]. Experimental studies [12–14] on the interfacial behavior of MLGO films are often unable to fully determine the effects of relative concentrations of hydroxide and epoxide groups in GO sheets as they have very similar binding energies [15,16]. Meanwhile, computational studies tend to lack consideration of the sheets' finite nature, i.e., that there are gaps between GO flakes that comprise each layer [17,18].

*E-mail address:* s-keten@northwestern.edu (S. Keten).

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2023.118382

Available online 21 August 2023 0008-6223/© 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Received 20 April 2023; Received in revised form 2 August 2023; Accepted 18 August 2023

© 2023 published by Elsevier. This manuscript is made available under the Elsevier user license <https://www.elsevier.com/open-access/userlicense/1.0/>

<sup>∗</sup> Corresponding author at: Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Northwestern University, 2145 Sheridan Road, Evanston, IL, 60208-3109, United States.

GO adds interfacial sliding resistance to the strength of graphene, making it an intriguing candidate for ballistic protection. Classic methods of evaluating material behavior at high strain rates such as those that occur during ballistic impact include nanoindentation [19] and Split-Hopkinson bar tests [20]. However, both of these techniques have shortcomings in evaluating ballistic penetration resistance: nanoindentation is inaccurate for measuring strain rate sensitivity at such high rates [21] and analyses via split-Hopkinson bars are sensitive to specimen size, particularly at high strain rates [22]. Addressing these shortcomings, Lee et al. [23] created the laser induced projectile impact test (LIPIT) to perform microballistic tests at high strain rates and allow testing of small specimens with specific nano- or micro-structures. In LIPIT, a laser is used to ablate a matrix material, causing rapid expansion of plasma that fires a bullet at speeds of around 1 km/s into a sample upon which strain rates on the order of 10<sup>8</sup> s <sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> are induced. A shortcoming of LIPIT experiments seen in literature is that failure mechanisms are difficult to analyze, as most information comes from post-mortem observations.

LIPIT experiments motivated a number of computational investigations focused on understanding fracture behavior of thin films in similar localized, high-strain rate projectile impact simulations [24– 26]. Atomistic methods have been predominantly employed for this purpose due to their high fidelity. However, the computational expense of all-atom methods often limits such studies to projectiles and film thicknesses that are orders of magnitude smaller than experiments, which makes direct comparisons between computational and experimental domains very challenging. Fortunately, the small scale of LIPIT experiments is nearly within reach of coarse-grained molecular dynamics (CGMD) simulations. A number of coarse-grained and multiscale modeling approaches have been implemented for studying the mechanical properties of carbon nanostructures [27–30]. Challenges particular to graphene and graphene oxide are to capture chemical details of the surfaces, anisotropy of shear resistance (i.e., superlubricity in particular directions), and variation of the elastic and interlayer adhesion properties with the degree of functionalization. As a step towards addressing these challenges, a CGMD model for graphene oxide was developed by Meng et al. where a 4-to-1 mapping scheme from all-atom to CG was applied [31]. This model is able to accurately reproduce the in-plane mechanical properties and interlayer adhesion strength of GO at varying degrees of oxidation. Meng et al. additionally developed a method of simulating LIPIT tests using MD, allowing increased temporal resolution of nanomaterial ballistic failure [25,32].

In this work, we apply these techniques to investigate the ballistic failure of MLGO thin films at increased spatial and temporal resolution, revealing their failure mechanisms at varying oxidation levels, flake sizes, and impact velocities. Since the efficacy of load transfer between layers depends largely on shear interactions, we expect that increases in overall oxidation level should increase the impact resistance of associated MLGO films. Similarly, in accordance with the continuum shear-lag model [33–35], an increase in flake size should also increase shear load transfer and therefore impact resistance. From previous works [36–38], we know that penetration energy is likely to increase with impact velocity; however, interactions between impact velocity and our other parameters (oxidation level and flake size) remain unknown. Elucidation of these behaviors will be a key asset in the design of future impact-resistant nanocomposites.

#### *1.1. Coarse-grained model description*

The CG GO model used here was originally created by Meng et al. [31] and applies a 4-to-1 mapping from all-atom to CG that preserves the hexagonal symmetry of the GO sheets. Among other properties, this model accurately reproduces elastic moduli, tensile strengths, ductilities, and interaction energies of GO up to 80% oxidation. Any equations, parameters, and validations not shown in this work can be found in the original publication for this model. There are three different types of CG beads: unoxidized beads (type C), hydroxideoxidized beads (type H), and epoxide-oxidized beads (type E). Bonds are typed according to their composition, where type 1 bonds contain only type C beads, type 2 bonds contain at least 1 type H bead (but no type E beads), and type 3 bonds contain at least one type E bead. The same typing scheme follows for angles. Oxidized beads (type H and type E) are distributed randomly throughout the film in accordance with their assigned proportions. Parameters for potentials are described below and in Table 1.

Type C beads have bonded interactions described by a Morse potential where <sup>0</sup> = 443.07 kcal/mol, = 1.154 Å−<sup>1</sup> , and <sup>0</sup> = 2.86 Å. Other bonded interactions are described as tabulated potentials whose functional forms were calculated using density functional-based tight binding (DFTB) methods. Since LIPIT conditions are more extreme than the mechanical tests applied to this model during development, we lengthened the range of types 2 and 3 bonded potentials from 2.6–3.8 Å and 2.5–4.5 Å, respectively, to 0-10 Å to increase the model's stability. The original functional forms were maintained but were applied to this lengthened range of bond distances. Additional testing confirmed that there are no changes in our results as a consequence of this modification. While matching DFT-calculated values best suited the study in which this potential was developed, the authors note that mechanical properties also agree with experimental works that calculate monolayer GO properties such as elastic modulus (200– 400 GPa) [15,39,40] and strength (24.7 GPa) [15]. Additionally, recent studies using reactive molecular dynamics potentials have reported elastic moduli of 175–450 GPa [41,42], a strengths of 20–35 GPa, and failure strains of 12% [41].

DFTB was also used to determine parameters used in the nonbonded potentials. However, since it is difficult to capture weak bonding effects (such as the van der Waals forces present in GO) using DFTB, nonbonded interaction energies were underestimated in the original model. In a subsequent work on patchy GO, Li et al. [43] corrected for this discrepancy by increasing these energies so that the adhesion energy of their GO sample, 700 mJ/m<sup>2</sup> , was closer to the value calculated by Compton et al. [44], 516 mJ/m<sup>2</sup> . In this work, we multiply the original nonbonded interaction energies by a factor of eight to achieve an adhesion energy of 466 mJ/m<sup>2</sup> for a moderately oxidized sample. This is equivalent to the practice of scaling interaction strength in the energy renormalization method for developing CGMD potentials [45– 47]. The factor of eight was chosen heuristically to bring the adhesion energy to an acceptable value. As determined by DFT calculations, the nonbonded interlayer spacing is 7.48 Å and is defined by the parameter . Details on these calculations can be found in the CGGO model publication [31]. This spacing is quite consistent with experimentally measured values between 7 and 8 Å [48–50]. Lorentz–Berthelot mixing rules are applied for all non-bonded interactions, where = ( + )∕2 and = √ .

#### *1.2. Protocols for coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations*

Large-scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator (LAMMPS) software [51] is used for all MD simulations, the structure files for which are created using MATLAB [52]. Visualizations are performed with Open Visualization Tool (OVITO) [53]. A timestep of 4 fs is used for simulations using this coarse-grained model, in contrast to the often lower values associated with all-atom molecular dynamics. A single simulation requires approximately 30 hours on 100 CPUs.

All equilibration and testing are performed at 10 K to minimize thermal noise in the results, as in previous work [25]. Boundary conditions in-plane to the thin film are periodic whereas the out-ofplane boundary is shrink-wrapped during equilibration and then fixed during LIPIT, at which point it is enlarged to accommodate the passage of the bullet. Bond breaking, enabled during equilibration as well as LIPIT, is determined using the bond energy profiles where the bond breaks at a distance corresponding to the maximum force, or otherwise H.L. White et al. Carbon 215 (2023) 118382

**Table 1**Description of potentials and associated parameters used in this work's CGGO model. Note that the  $\varepsilon$  values for nonbonded interactions are different than the original model as discussed in the text.

| Functional Form                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                       | Parameters                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Bonds $ \label{eq:D0}  \text{Type I: } V_{b,I}(d) = D_0[1-e^{-a(d-d_0)}]^2 $                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                                       | $D_0 = 443.07 \frac{kca}{mol}$ $\alpha = 1.154$                                                                                                      | <u>!</u>                                                                                                                               | $d_0 = 2.86\text{Å}$<br>$d_{cut} = 3.70 \text{ Å}$                    |                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| $\begin{split} &\text{Types II \& III: } V_{b,II\&III}(d) = \\ & \begin{cases} k_{be}(d-d_0)^2, \\ k_{bp}(d-d_{c1})^2 + 2k_{be}(d_{c1}-d_0)(d-d_{c1}) + C_1, \\ k_{bf}(d-d_{c2})^2 + [2k_{bp}(d_{c2}-d_{c1}) \\ & \dots + 2k_{be}(d_{c1}-d_0)](d-d_{c2}) + C_2, \\ C_1 &= k_{be}(d_{c1}-d_0)^2 \\ C_2 &= k_{bp}(d_{c2}-d_{c1})^2 + 2k_{be}(d_{c1}-d_0)(d_{c2}-d_{c1}) + 1 \end{cases} \end{split}$ | $\begin{aligned} & d < d_{c1} \\ & d_{c1} < d < d_{c2} \\ & d > d_{c2} \end{aligned}$ | $\begin{array}{l} d_0 & & & & & \\ d_{c1} & & & & & \\ d_{c2} & & & & & \\ d_{cut} & & & & & \\ k_{be} & & & & & \\ k_{bf} & & & & & \\ \end{array}$ | Type II<br>2.94<br>3.12<br>3.46<br>3.50<br>317.34<br>126.94<br>634.68                                                                  | Type III<br>2.80<br>3.00<br>4.20<br>4.30<br>256.10<br>21.34<br>512.20 | $\frac{\text{Unit}}{\mathring{A}}$ $\mathring{A}$ $\mathring{A}$ $\mathring{A}$ $\frac{kcal}{mol-\mathring{A}^2}$ $\frac{mol-\mathring{A}^2}{kcal}$ $\frac{kcal}{mol-\mathring{A}^2}$ |
| Angles $V_a(\theta) = k_0(\theta - \theta_0)^2$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                       | All types:<br>Type I:<br>Type II:<br>Type III:                                                                                                       | $\theta_0 = 120^{\circ}$ $k_{\theta} = 456.61$ $k_{\theta} = 259.47$ $k_{\theta} = 189.93$                                             | $kcal$ $mol-\bar{A}$ $kcal$ $mol-\bar{A}$ $kcal$ $mol-\bar{A}$        |                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Nonbonded $V_{nb}(r) = 4\epsilon_{LJ} \left[ \left( \frac{\sigma_{LJ}}{r} \right)^{12} - \left( \frac{\sigma_{LJ}}{r} \right)^{6} \right]$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                       | All types:<br>Type C:<br>Type H:<br>Type O:                                                                                                          | $\begin{split} \sigma_{LJ} &= 7.48 \\ \varepsilon_{LJ} &= 0.204 \\ \varepsilon_{LJ} &= 1.024 \\ \varepsilon_{LJ} &= 0.638 \end{split}$ | Å  keal mol keal mol keal mol                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                       |

to an inflection point. Details of these calculations can be found in the publication for the original model [31].

Systems are minimized and subsequently equilibrated in an NVT ensemble at 10 K for 40 ps and then in an NPT ensemble at 10 K and 0 MPa for 40 ps, followed by a final NVT equilibration at 10 K for 480 ps. The film is prepared for impact by clamping the perimeter, which prevents it from being dragged out of place by the impacting bullet. This clamp is established by setting the forces and velocities of atoms within this area to zero while maintaining a mobile, cylindrical film center with a radius of 72 nm. The size of the mobile radius is large enough that the stress wave reflected by the boundary does not interfere with the bullet's penetration, as discussed in previous work [32].

As shown in Fig. 1, each layer of a GO film is constructed by laying finite square flakes of GO in a tile formation. Layers are stacked so that each flake shares a 50% overlap with the flakes above and below it in both in-plane directions, similar to previous work [33]. All flakes are oriented such that they share zigzag and armchair directions. An overview of the varied film parameters is shown in Table 2. GO films are 150 x 150 nm and consist of 6 layers (~3.8 nm) of square GO flakes with edge lengths ranging from 5 to 25 nm. When examining 20 nm flakes, the film size is increased to  $160 \times 160$  nm for ease of GO flake placement; however, the mobile radius of the film remains 72 nm. Systems with oxidation levels between 10% and 60% are investigated, where the oxidized beads have been randomly placed such that each flake shares the same prescribed oxidation level as the next. Impact velocities  $(v_i)$  vary between 0.4 and 1.0 km/s. Three trials were run for each combination of parameters, where each trial maintains the same film size and architecture but varies in the random positions

Table 2
GO film explored parameter space.

| GO Flake Side  | Percent functionalization: | Impact velocity       |
|----------------|----------------------------|-----------------------|
| Length (d, nm) | Hydroxide-Epoxide          | $(v_i, \text{ km/s})$ |
| 5              | 5%H - 5%E                  | 0.4                   |
| 10             | 10%H - 10%E                | 0.6                   |
| 15             | 20%H - 20%E                | 0.8                   |
| 20             | 30%H - 30%E                | 1.0                   |
| 25             | 10%H - 30%E                |                       |
|                | 30%H - 10%E                |                       |
|                |                            |                       |

of the oxidized beads. The use of three trials instead of one gives an indication of the response variability. It is relevant to note that, while new structures (with new oxidized bead placements) are generated for each trial of a given flake size and oxidation level, the complete range of impact velocities is tested on each of these structures. In other words, all the same structures are used for 0.4 km/s as for 1.0 km/s; the only difference is the initial velocity assigned to the bullet.

The bullet is formed as in previous studies [25] where a diamond cubic lattice is created with a lattice constant of 0.72 nm which, at double the value of diamond's actual lattice constant, reflects the CG mapping used for the graphene oxide. The atoms in the bullet are assigned molar masses of 96 g/mol resulting in a bullet density of 3.5 g/cm³, consistent with that of diamond. The radius of the bullet is set to 25 nm and the bullet is treated as a single rigid object as no significant bullet deformation is seen to take place during LIPIT tests on thin films [38]. Interactions between the bullet and all film components are treated the same as non-bonded interactions between graphene beads in the CG multi-layer graphene model [54], with a 12–6 Lennard Jones potential where  $\varepsilon=0.82$  kcal/mol and  $\sigma=3.46$  Å. The bullet is fired into the film with varying initial velocities in an NVE ensemble to conserve the total system energy as in previous works [25,32].

To determine the penetration resistance of the films, we base our methods on those from Lee et al. [38]. The bullet's kinetic energy is recorded before and following impact to calculate the penetration energy. Since the bullet is incapable of deformation and the simulation takes place in vacuum conditions, the difference in its kinetic energy pre- and post-impact is entirely due to the GO film and is equivalent to the film's penetration energy,  $E_p = \Delta K E = \frac{1}{2} m_p (v_f^2 - v_i^2)$ , where  $m_n$  is the mass of the projectile and  $v_f$  and  $v_i$  denote final and initial projectile velocities, respectively. To determine dissipative effects due to the films' architecture, we normalize the penetration energy by the mass of material directly under the bullet so that  $E_p^* = E_p/\rho A_s h_{ave}$ where  $E_n^*$  is the specific energy dissipation,  $\rho$  is the density of the film material,  $A_s$  is the two-dimensional projected area of the bullet onto the film and  $h_{ave}$  is the average height of the film.  $E_n^*$  generally scales with  $v_i^2$  as discussed in previous studies [32,38], which makes it strongly dependent on the impact velocity. Thus, we also introduce a normalization by squared impact velocity, which we denote as  $E_n^{**}$  =  $E_p^*/v_i^2$ . In short,  $E_p^{**}$  is normalized for material density as well as impact velocity and reflects the efficacy of the film architecture as a ballistic protection materials.

H.L. White et al. Carbon 215 (2023) 118382

Fig. 1. (a) Schematic of GO film composition comprised of many individual GO flakes. These flakes are layered with 50% overlap in both in-plane directions to form the thin film. (b) Schematic a single GO flake, depicting CG beads bonded into the characteristic hexagonal lattice for graphene. This particular flake is representative of a 10% hydroxide and 10% enoxide oxidation.

Uniaxial tensile simulations are also performed in this work to analyze the trends seen in the LIPIT simulations. The structures assembled for these tests consist of 6 layers of three axially-aligned GO flakes, with 50% overlap between layers in both in-plane directions. We use three flakes because this allows a more localized failure and is thus a better reflection of the LIPIT-induced failures than a lesser number of flakes. Periodic boundary conditions are implemented for both in-plane directions whereas the out-of-plane boundary is fixed. The simulation box is deformed in the axial direction at a constant pulling velocity of 150 nm/ns. Axial lengths and oxidation levels of the flakes vary depending on the test, but transverse flake widths are held constant at 10 nm. Flakes are oriented such that the zigzag direction coincides with the axial (pulling) direction. Toughness is as the integral of the strain–strain curve from strain onset to material failure.

### 2. Results and discussion

A detailed visualization of the LIPIT setup is shown in Fig. 2, where the CG beads in the GO film are color-coded by relative out-of-plane (z) position. This depiction reveals the rippled texture of the GO film, which is consistent with experimental findings [13,55,56]. All beads within the outlined circle are mobile whereas the beads outside this circle are fixed in place, as described in Section 2.2. The bullet is positioned to impact the center of the film at a defined velocity.

#### 2.1. Failure mechanism

Despite bond-breaking being enabled in all simulations as described in Section 2.2, no bonds were broken upon impact. Although increased oxidation levels are known to weaken GO sheets, even highly oxidized GO has an ultimate tensile stress of over 50 GPa [57]. Considering this in addition to the small sizes of the flakes, it is unsurprising that these multilayer GO thin films would fail at their weakest points, the defects between the flakes, especially as GO tensile behavior is known to be dominated by interactions between the layers of GO [58]. Regardless, we find that the specific penetration energies  $(E_p^*)$  of the GO films are quite consistent with those measured experimentally for unoxidized graphene films by Lee et al. [38], generally falling between 0.2 and

0.7 MJ/kg as shown in Fig. 3a–c.  $E_p^*$  for our GO films is somewhat lower than that of Lee et al.'s graphene films ( $E_p^* \approx 1.2$  MJ/kg), which is logical as those graphene films appear to fail at least partially via bond breakage indicated by the symmetry of the crack propagation. In contrast, the GO flakes in this work's films are forced to slide past each other to allow passage of the bullet. These GO flakes are smaller than those in many experimental works [58,59], which may partially explain failure via sliding rather than fracture. Even for experimental systems where flakes are much larger, intersheet sliding is still relevant as there is often large polydispersity of sheet dimensions and slip events are likely to occur for small flakes. Nevertheless, we anticipate that larger flakes relative to bullet size and/or thicker films would increase the likelihood of failure via GO fracture, as experimental studies often report failure of GO films via bond breaking rather than flake sliding [39,58].

To see how the impact resistance changes in the limit of infinitely large flakes, we additionally examined three independent systems with large, defect-free flakes spanning the free span of the circular mobile region and found the average specific penetration energy of three independent systems with 20%H-20%E functionalization at  $v_i=1.0\,$  km/s to be 5.19 MJ/kg. These systems are forced to fail solely via bond breakage.

## 2.2. Effects of impact velocity

Fig. 3a–c depicts  $E_p^*$  across varying impact velocities. At first glance, it appears to indicate that larger impact velocities increase  $E_p^*$ ; however, one must consider that  $E_p^*$  is still impact velocity-dependent. When  $E_p^*$  is normalized by  $v_i^2$  the resulting  $E_p^{**}$  values decrease as impact velocity increases, indicating a decrease in film impact resistance with faster impact velocities. As this effect becomes more pronounced for larger flake sizes, we believe this is related to the mobility of the GO flakes: as the impact velocity increases, the flakes have less time to redistribute the load from the incoming projectile; thus,  $E_p^{**}$  decreases. As discussed later in this work, small flakes may have an advantage over large flakes under high loading rate due to their increased mobility in the film.

**Fig. 2.** LIPIT setup, where the bullet is positioned to impact the GO film. The GO film is color-coded for height to show texture. The inset illustrates the assembly of GO flakes into the film layers, tiled as in a chessboard. refers to the bullet radius (constant at 25 nm), is the impact velocity of the bullet, and is the edge length of the square GO flakes.

**Fig. 3.** Increased levels of oxidation improve energy dissipation at low impact velocities; however, this trend deteriorates or reverses at high impact velocities. The points overlaid on each bar are the results of each of the 3 trials whose average is represented by the bar. Panels a, b, and c show the specific penetration energy <sup>∗</sup> for flake sizes 5, 15, and 25 nm, respectively. Panels d, e, and f show the same values normalized by squared impact velocity to give ∗∗ .

#### *2.3. Effects of overall oxidation level*

Fig. 3 additionally demonstrates the influence of overall oxidation level on the penetration resistance of the GO films. In panels a–c, increasing the films' oxide content increases <sup>∗</sup> for the slower impact velocities. However, this trend diminishes with increasing impact velocity, even reversing in the cases of small flake sizes at high impact velocity (e.g., 5 nm and 1 km/s, respectively). We will first discuss the case of low impact velocity, where <sup>∗</sup> increases with degree of oxidation.

Tensile material properties are particularly relevant to ballistic impact resistance [60,61], and as previously mentioned, tensile properties of GO films are dominated by interactions between the GO layers. We believe this heightened inter-sheet friction from increased oxidation levels to be the primary reason why <sup>∗</sup> increases with overall oxidation level at low impact velocity. According to the energy values in our pairwise potentials, the oxidized CG beads have stronger nonbonded interactions than the unoxidized beads, providing additional shear resistance with increasing oxidation. This is further supported by the

Fig. 4. Specific penetration energy generally increases with increasing hydroxide fraction for small flake sizes at low impact velocities but decreases with increasing hydroxide fraction for large flake sizes at high impact velocities. Panels a-c show specific penetration energy while panels d-f depict the same values normalized by impact velocity as described in Section 2.2.

work of Daly et al. who demonstrated that elevated oxide functionalization increases friction coefficients between GO layers, providing resistance to inter-sheet sliding [15].

As discussed in later sections, we believe the mobility of the GO flakes to affect the films' penetration energy, i.e., that the GO flakes are capable of adjusting their positions to redistribute the load from the incoming bullet so long as enough time is allowed. The highly oxidized flakes with relatively stronger attractions to each other need more time to adjust optimally, especially in the case of systems with larger flakes that are already more geometrically restricted than their smaller counterparts. Consequently, increases in  $E_p^*$  with oxidation level are more dramatic at lower impact velocities since those allow the film more time to adapt to the incoming projectile. The mobility of GO flakes is discussed in detail in upcoming sections.

### 2.4. Effects of oxide distribution

As previously mentioned, it is currently difficult to determine the distribution of hydroxide and epoxide groups in experimentally produced GO. A key advantage of our computational model is that we have precise control over oxide distribution and are able to gain insights into related effects on impact resistance of GO thin films. In the following simulations, we hold the overall oxidation level constant at 40% and vary the amount of hydroxide to 10%, 20%, and 30%, with the remainder being epoxide functionalization. Fig. 4 shows the results of these simulations. Similarly to overall oxidation level, penetration energy generally increases as hydroxide level increases for low impact velocities and small flake sizes, but this trend (usually) reverses at high impact velocities and large flake sizes. This can be attributed to the stronger nonbonded interactions of hydroxide functionalized beads relative to epoxide functionalized beads, which increases shear resistance between flakes and consequently increases  $E_n^*$  for low impact velocities. Meanwhile, the motion of the flakes is increasingly restricted with stronger nonbonded interactions, preventing them from effectively redistributing the load and consequently lowering  $E_n^*$  at high impact velocities. An exception to the aforementioned trend is the case of 25 nm flakes at 1.0 km/s, where, despite the high impact velocity, penetration energy increases with increasing impact velocities. Since the

same sets of structures are used for all impact velocities, this is not a consequence of anomalous oxide distribution. It is possible that a new behavior is emerging at this peripheral area in our parameter space; further studies in this region are needed to determine if this is the case.

#### 2.5. Effects of flake size

Fig. 5 plots  $E_n^*$  and  $E_n^{**}$  across flake sizes 5 nm to 25 nm for 20%H-20%E. In a previous work [33], one of the authors explored increases in shear resistance of multilayered graphene up to a critical overlap length beyond which this resistance no longer increases. Since the overlap lengths of these GO flakes (2.5-12.5 nm) are well below that critical overlap length (about 20 nm), one might expect these values to generally increase as the flake size increases since there is more overlapping area for larger flakes and therefore more shear resistance. While  $E_n^*$  does increase with flake length at low impact velocities, high impact velocity cases show a convex or plateaued trend in  $E_n^*$  with flake size. As discussed previously, we believe this is because increases in both flake size and impact velocity restrict flake motion, preventing them from effectively redistributing load. In addition to these temporal limitations, atomic friction tends to increase with velocity [62], resulting in a reduced critical overlap length and providing an explanation for similar  $E_n^*$  across flake sizes at high impact velocity.

## 2.6. Tensile tests

As previously mentioned, specimens subjected to LIPIT fail primarily via tensile mechanisms; therefore, this section will discuss results from uniaxial tensile tests as a means to elucidate LIPIT trends found in the previous sections. Tensile tests are performed as outlined in Section 2.2. First, we explore effects related to oxidation with a constant flake size of 25 nm. Then we examine differences related to GO flake size. A similar setup to the varied oxidation tensile test was used for the flake size tensile tests, except the oxidation level was held constant at 20%H-20%E and the lengths of the flakes in the axial direction were varied from 5 to 25 nm while the widths remained 10 nm.

The resulting stress-strain curves are shown in Fig. 6a-c. All curves exhibit an initial peak in stress corresponding to the straightening of

H.L. White et al. Carbon 215 (2023) 118382

Fig. 5. Impact of GO flake size on the films' (a) specific penetration energy  $E_p^*$  and (b) impact velocity normalized specific penetration energy  $E_p^{**}$  at a constant oxidation level of 20% H + 20% E. The points overlaid on each bar are the results of each of the 3 trials whose average is represented by the bar.  $E_p^*$  generally increases with  $v_i$ , and tends to increase with flake size while  $v_i \le 0.6$  km/s. However, at  $v_i > 0.6$  km/s, the relationship between flake size and  $E_p^*$  becomes less certain.

Fig. 6. Stress-strain curves for tensile tests of GO systems. (I) Tensile toughness and ultimate stress in reduced graphene oxide increase with degree of oxidation, providing an explanation for the GO films' increased impact energy dissipation at elevated oxidation levels. (II) The width of the maximum stress peak drops with increasing flake size.

the sheets as the load is applied, followed by a relative plateau. The plateau has stress fluctuations corresponding to the stick–slip motion of the layered GO [63] so that the increases correspond to "sticks" and the drops reflect "slips". Finally, the stress drops to zero as the GO film fails. As the oxidation level increases, so does the ultimate stress, the plateau stress, and the toughness.

We tend to see larger secondary stress peaks for systems consisting of larger oxidation levels and larger flake sizes. This is probably because the smaller, more mobile flakes can shift and redistribute this stress, whereas flakes that are larger or have stronger interactions cannot do so as easily. Thus, the stress rises until the flakes finally slip from each other. This happens at roughly 0.2 strain because the defects between

Table 3
Impact of flake size on tensile toughness

| U         |                                                        |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Toughness | Normalized toughness                                   |
| (MPa)     | (MPa/nm)                                               |
| 69.05     | 13.81                                                  |
| 69.68     | 6.97                                                   |
| 61.43     | 4.10                                                   |
| 72.30     | 3.62                                                   |
| 113.65    | 4.55                                                   |
|           | Toughness<br>(MPa)<br>69.05<br>69.68<br>61.43<br>72.30 |

flakes occur at a frequency of 0.5/3 = 0.17, where the flakes overlap each other by 50% and there are 3 flakes per layer. For large-flaked systems that deform in a relatively affine manner, this is the first major contact loss between flakes.

The stress-strain curves in Fig. 6d-h show that the toughness for flake sizes between 5--20 nm is roughly the same, calculated to around 70 MPa. However, this value does not reflect the differences in contacting surface area between the sheets. Intuitively, flakes with a longer axial length should exhibit a tougher response (up to a critical length [33] that should be well beyond those discussed here) since more work is required to de-overlap flakes. As a result, more energy should be dissipated in the process, which should increase the toughness. These observations hold true for similar 50% overlap assemblies of 1D crystals or even graphitic systems and can be corroborated with shear lag theory [33]. When this is taken into account via normalization of toughness by axial flake length as shown in Table 3, the toughness per length is higher for the 5 nm flakes than the any of the others. Visualizing the tensile trajectories revealed the likely cause of this: smaller flakes are much more mobile than larger flakes, as shown in a comparison between Figs. 7 and 8, which allows them to rearrange and redistribute load as the film is pulled apart. This is likely the reason why smaller flake sizes have a broader peak in their stress-strain curves: as smaller flakes are redistributing load, GO films are able to sustain high stress for larger periods of time and provide higher contributions to toughness).

To calculate differences in mobility relating to flake size, we plot the average mean squared deviation (MSD) of the centers of mass (COMs) for the different flake sizes using the formula  $\overline{MSD} = \frac{1}{N} \sum_{n=1}^{N}$  $\sqrt{\Delta x^2 + \Delta y^2 + \Delta z^2}$  where N is the total number of flakes in the system, and x, y, and z are the Cartesian coordinates of the nth flake. Fig. 9 depicts the average flake MSD for these systems as a function of strain. In panel (a), it is evident that larger flakes travel larger distances at the same strain. However, as these systems only vary in the axial lengths of the flakes (and not the number of flakes in the system), these values are not comparable to each other without normalization by these lengths, which is depicted in panel (b). When normalized, the MSD curves roughly collapse on each other up to about 0.08 strain, which is about where the initial stress peaks terminate in the stress-strain curves (see Fig. 6d-h). At this point the curves deviate from their courses, with larger changes for smaller flakes sizes. The maximum deviations occur at about 0.17 strain which corresponds to a second peak in the stress-strain curves that is more prevalent at small flake sizes.

Interestingly, due to the use of three flakes per layer and 50% overlap between flakes, alignment of the defects between the flakes occurs at increments of  $0.5 \div 3 = 0.17$  times the total lengths of the tensile specimens, suggesting that the strain at which the flakes' motion increases is related to defect frequency in the films. Due to the presence of flake alignment, flakes in these systems slip at roughly the same strain, producing the bumps seen in Fig. 9. The authors expect that a film comprised of unaligned flakes would still experience increased mobility with decreased flake size, except that the motion would simply be more evenly distributed across the strain.

This observed ability of nanoscale GO flakes to shift is similar to the behavior seen by Wang et al. [64], who infiltrated carbon nanotubes

Fig. 7. 5 nm GO flakes maintain contact with many surrounding flakes as they are strained. This is enabled by their relatively high mobility resulting from their small

(CNTs) with nanoscale GO particles to increase their mechanical performance via improved interlocking between CNTs. On testing different GO particle sizes between 40 and 120 nm, they found that the addition of 40 nm GO particles showed the greatest improvements in stiffness, yield strength, and ultimate tensile strength, and the second greatest improvement in energy-to-failure (next to the 56 nm particle size). The authors speculate that the smaller sizes better infiltrated the CNTS, briefly mentioning the ability of the particles to rearrange under strain according to lowest bonding energy.

## 2.7. Model limitations

We briefly discuss the limitations of the presented modeling framework and potential ramifications. The first question that must be addressed is what is the role of the GO flake arrangement and whether the 50% overlap idealization poses limitations. It is known that the layering of actual graphene flakes and their derivatives is certainly more irregular than those depicted here, exhibiting much less flake alignment than the regular staggering in this work [65-67]. Stairwise and regularly staggered layers are often believed to produce higher stiffness, strength, and strain to failure than those that are staggered randomly [68-70], implying that the systems in this work are likely stronger and more ductile than those produced experimentally. However, other works argue that these effects of structural randomness disappear at large enough lengths, demonstrating that some random configurations can be superior to staggered configurations [71]. Another difference of this model from experimental GO films is its flake size monodispersity whereas experimentally produced films frequently exhibit large degrees of polydispersity [72,73]. This polydispersity may decrease the bulk material elasticity and toughness as likelihood of stress concentrations increases [70,74].

**Fig. 8.** 25 nm flakes lose contact under strain in a more affine manner than their smaller counterparts, as they are less mobile and do not interact with as many nearby flakes during deformation.

**Fig. 9.** Average mean squared deviation (MSD) of each flake's center of mass (COM) during tensile testing. (a) Unsurprisingly, the COMs of longer flakes travel farther by absolute distance. (b) Normalization by axial flake length reveals a relative difference in flake mobility during tensile testing. The bumps in the curves at around 0.17 strain correspond to flakes shifting, where larger bump corresponds to a larger amount of shifting.

The current model neglects the explicit effect of moisture on interlayer adhesion since the DFT calculations from which the parameters were derived were conducted in vacuum. The presence of atomic layers of water between GO sheets can induce an antiplasticizing effect at low volume fractions, but may act as a lubricating layer at higher fractions [44,75–77]. The effect of water is complex to capture with CG resolution, but our sensitivity analysis on adhesion energy should provide qualitative guidance on what role water may play in altering mechanical response through its effect on the interlayer adhesion energy. For example, it was found that the increased mobility of smaller flakes may increase impact resistance. If the adhesion energy was overestimated, then advantages related to small flakes may cut off at a larger flake size than 5-−10 nm. However, the general trend that impact resistance improves beyond a certain minimal overlap length still holds.

## **3. Conclusion**

In this work, coarse-grained molecular dynamics is applied to uncover critical elements to the design of multilayer graphene oxide films for use as ballistic protection materials. Because all GO films failed via sliding of individual flakes, shear forces dictate the penetration resistance of systems within this works' parameter space. Stronger nonbonded interactions in particular increase this shear resistance. Since shear resistance increases with oxidation level and flake size, it is no surprise that these factors generally increase penetration resistance; however, it becomes evident that relative timescales influence this dynamic process. When the bullet impacts the film, GO flakes can shift position to redistribute the load, increasing penetration resistance. However, their ability to shift is affected by their mobility which decreases with higher oxidation levels and larger flake sizes. The flakes'

ability to redistribute load is further restricted by impact velocity such that the strongly adhering flakes may not have time to shift under fast impact.

These findings provide foundational information to design ballistic protection materials for maximum effect and invite further exploration of the interplay between various design features. In particular, our findings suggest that in the range of high-strain rate impact scenarios studied, including both uniaxial and projectile tests, employing a moderate degree of oxidation as well as some degree of flake size dispersity in the form of smaller flakes capable of rearrangement may improve ballistic performance. Future work may include evaluation of flake size polydispersity in these systems, for which implementation of machine learning methods such as reinforcement or active learning would likely be useful. Additional improvements to GO penetration resistance may be found in selective oxidation of graphene, as opposed to the random distributions presented here.

#### **CRediT authorship contribution statement**

**Heather L. White:** Writing – original draft, software (equal), Investigation, Formal analysis, Visualization. **Andrea Giuntoli:** Methodology, Software (equal), Writing – review & editing. **Müge Fermen-Coker:** Funding acquisition, Project administration, Resources, Writing – review & editing. **Sinan Keten:** conceptualization (lead), Methodology, Project administration, Writing – review & editing, Supervision (lead).

#### **Declaration of competing interest**

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

## **Acknowledgments**

The authors acknowledge funding by the Army Research Office (award #W911NF-17-1-0430) as well as support from the Department of Mechanical Engineering at Northwestern University. This work was supported in part by high-performance computer time and resources from the DoD High Performance Computing Modernization Program. Additionally, we give thanks to Ela Sigin and Dalia Adhab for their supporting research efforts. Finally, we express appreciation for the input and support from Jae-Hwang Lee (University of Massachusetts, Amherst), Karl Putz (Survice Engineering Company in support of the DEVCOM Army Research Laboratory; currently at Discovery Partners Institute), James Berry, and Brian Barnes (DEVCOM Army Research Laboratory).

## **References**

- [1] S. Kulkarni, X.-L. Gao, S. Horner, J. Zheng, N. David, Ballistic helmets their design, materials, and performance against traumatic brain injury, Compos. Struct. 101 (2013) 313–331, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compstruct.2013.02. 014.
- [2] F. de Oliveira Braga, T.L. Milanezi, S.N. Monteiro, L.H.L. Louro, A.V. Gomes, É.P. Lima, Ballistic comparison between epoxy-ramie and epoxy-aramid composites in multilayered Armor systems, J. Mater. Res. Technol. 7 (4) (2018) 541–549, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jmrt.2018.06.018.
- [3] Q. Wu, Q. Zhang, R. Long, K. Zhang, J. Guo, Potential space debris shield structure using impact-initiated energetic materials composed of polytetrafluoroethylene and aluminum, Appl. Phys. Lett. 108 (10) (2016) 101903, http: //dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.4943584.
- [4] E. Grossman, I. Gouzman, R. Verker, Debris/micrometeoroid impacts and synergistic effects on spacecraft materials, MRS Bull. 35 (1) (2010) 41–47, http: //dx.doi.org/10.1557/mrs2010.615.
- [5] H. Krag, M. Serrano, V. Braun, P. Kuchynka, M. Catania, J. Siminski, M. Schimmerohn, X. Marc, D. Kuijper, I. Shurmer, A. O'Connell, M. Otten, I. Muñoz, J. Morales, M. Wermuth, D. McKissock, A 1 cm space debris impact onto the sentinel-1A solar array, Acta Astronaut. 137 (2017) 434–443, http: //dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.actaastro.2017.05.010.

[6] J.-U. Lee, D. Yoon, H. Cheong, Estimation of Young's modulus of graphene by Raman spectroscopy, Nano Lett. 12 (9) (2012) 4444–4448, http://dx.doi.org/10. 1021/nl301073q.

- [7] R.K. Srivastava, S. Srivastava, T.N. Narayanan, B.D. Mahlotra, R. Vajtai, P.M. Ajayan, A. Srivastava, Functionalized multilayered graphene platform for urea sensor, ACS Nano 6 (1) (2012) 168–175, http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/nn203210s.
- [8] V. Sridhar, H.-J. Kim, J.-H. Jung, C. Lee, S. Park, I.-K. Oh, Defect-engineered three-dimensional graphene–nanotube–palladium nanostructures with ultrahigh capacitance, ACS Nano 6 (12) (2012) 10562–10570, http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ nn3046133.
- [9] W. Xia, F. Vargas-Lara, S. Keten, J.F. Douglas, Structure and dynamics of a graphene melt, ACS Nano 12 (6) (2018) 5427–5435, http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ acsnano.8b00524.
- [10] P. Brisebois, M. Siaj, Harvesting graphene oxide–years 1859 to 2019: A review of its structure, synthesis, properties and exfoliation, J. Mater. Chem. C 8 (5) (2020) 1517–1547.
- [11] D. Berman, A. Erdemir, A.V. Zinovev, A.V. Sumant, Nanoscale friction properties of graphene and graphene oxide, Diam. Relat. Mater. 54 (2015) 91–96, http: //dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.diamond.2014.10.012, Advances in Diamond Thin Films and Novel Nanocarbon Materials.
- [12] K. Nandy, M.J. Palmeri, C.M. Burke, Z. An, S.T. Nguyen, K.W. Putz, L.C. Brinson, Stop motion animation reveals formation mechanism of hierarchical structure in graphene oxide papers, Adv. Mater. Interfaces 3 (6) (2016) 1500666, http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/admi.201500666.
- [13] D.A. Dikin, S. Stankovich, E.J. Zimney, R.D. Piner, G.H.B. Dommett, G. Evmenenko, S.T. Nguyen, R.S. Ruoff, Preparation and characterization of graphene oxide paper, Nature 448 (7152) (2007) 457–460, http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ nature06016.
- [14] X. Wei, L. Mao, R.A. Soler-Crespo, J.T. Paci, J. Huang, S.T. Nguyen, H.D. Espinosa, Plasticity and ductility in graphene oxide through a mechanochemically induced damage tolerance mechanism, Nature Commun. 6 (1) (2015) 8029, http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ncomms9029.
- [15] M. Daly, C. Cao, H. Sun, Y. Sun, T. Filleter, C.V. Singh, Interfacial shear strength of multilayer graphene oxide films, ACS Nano 10 (2) (2016) 1939–1947, http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b05771.
- [16] D. Pacilé, J. Meyer, A. Fraile Rodríguez, M. Papagno, C. Gómez-Navarro, R. Sundaram, M. Burghard, K. Kern, C. Carbone, U. Kaiser, Electronic properties and atomic structure of graphene oxide membranes, Carbon 49 (3) (2011) 966–972, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2010.09.063.
- [17] C.D. Wood, M.J. Palmeri, K.W. Putz, Z. An, S.T. Nguyen, L. Catherine Brinson, Hierarchical Structure and Properties of Graphene Oxide Papers, J. Appl. Mech. 80 (4) (2013) http://dx.doi.org/10.1115/1.4024177.
- [18] K. Nandy, The Origin of Hierarchical Structure in Self-Assembled Graphene Oxide Papers and the Effect on Mechanical Properties (Ph.D. thesis), Northwestern University, 2016, p. 123.
- [19] G. Guillonneau, M. Mieszala, J. Wehrs, J. Schwiedrzik, S. Grop, D. Frey, L. Philippe, J.-M. Breguet, J. Michler, J.M. Wheeler, Nanomechanical testing at high strain rates: New instrumentation for nanoindentation and microcompression, Mater. Des. 148 (2018) 39–48, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.matdes.2018.03.050.
- [20] A. Graziano, O.A. Titton Dias, O. Petel, High-strain-rate mechanical performance of particle-and fiber-reinforced polymer composites measured with split Hopkinson bar: A review, Polym. Compos. 42 (10) (2021) 4932–4948.
- [21] B. Merle, W.H. Higgins, G.M. Pharr, Critical issues in conducting constant strain rate nanoindentation tests at higher strain rates, J. Mater. Res. 34 (20) (2019) 3495–3503, http://dx.doi.org/10.1557/jmr.2019.292.
- [22] N. Dioh, P. Leevers, J. Williams, Thickness effects in split hopkinson pressure bar tests, Polymer 34 (20) (1993) 4230–4234, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0032- 3861(93)90181-9.
- [23] J.-H. Lee, D. Veysset, J.P. Singer, M. Retsch, G. Saini, T. Pezeril, K.A. Nelson, E.L. Thomas, High strain rate deformation of layered nanocomposites, Nature Commun. 3 (1) (2012) 1164, http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ncomms2166.
- [24] R.A. Bizao, L.D. Machado, J.M. De Sousa, N.M. Pugno, D.S. Galvao, Scale effects on the ballistic penetration of graphene sheets, Sci. Rep. 8 (1) (2018) http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-25050-2.
- [25] Z. Meng, A. Singh, X. Qin, S. Keten, Reduced ballistic limit velocity of graphene membranes due to cone wave reflection, Extreme Mech. Lett. 15 (2017) 70–77, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.eml.2017.06.001.
- [26] M. Dewapriya, R. Miller, Energy absorption mechanisms of nanoscopic multilayer structures under ballistic impact loading, Comput. Mater. Sci. 195 (2021) 110504.
- [27] S.A. Silling, M. Fermen-Coker, Peridynamic model for microballistic perforation of multilayer graphene, Theor. Appl. Fract. Mech. 113 (2021) 102947.
- [28] A.J. Lew, C.-H. Yu, Y.-C. Hsu, M.J. Buehler, Deep learning model to predict fracture mechanisms of graphene, npj 2D Mater. Appl. 5 (1) (2021) 1–8.
- [29] D. Sen, K.S. Novoselov, P.M. Reis, M.J. Buehler, Tearing graphene sheets from adhesive substrates produces tapered nanoribbons, small 6 (10) (2010) 1108–1116.
- [30] R. Khare, S.L. Mielke, J.T. Paci, S. Zhang, R. Ballarini, G.C. Schatz, T. Belytschko, Coupled quantum mechanical/molecular mechanical modeling of the fracture of defective carbon nanotubes and graphene sheets, Phys. Rev. B 75 (7) (2007) 075412.

- [31] Z. Meng, R.A. Soler-Crespo, W. Xia, W. Gao, L. Ruiz, H.D. Espinosa, S. Keten, A coarse-grained model for the mechanical behavior of graphene oxide, Carbon 117 (2017) 476–487, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2017.02.061.
- [32] Z. Meng, S. Keten, Unraveling the Effect of Material Properties and Geometrical Factors on Ballistic Penetration Energy of Nanoscale Thin Films, J. Appl. Mech. 85 (12) (2018) http://dx.doi.org/10.1115/1.4041041.
- [33] W. Xia, L. Ruiz, N.M. Pugno, S. Keten, Critical length scales and strain localization govern the mechanical performance of multi-layer graphene assemblies, Nanoscale 8 (2016) 6456–6462, http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C5NR08488A.
- [34] H.L. Cox, The elasticity and strength of paper and other fibrous materials, Br. J. Appl. Phys. 3 (3) (1952) 72–79, http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0508-3443/3/3/302.
- [35] B. Chen, P. Wu, H. Gao, A characteristic length for stress transfer in the nanostructure of biological composites, Compos. Sci. Technol. 69 (7) (2009) 1160–1164, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compscitech.2009.02.012.
- [36] Y. Zhu, A. Giuntoli, N. Hansoge, Z. Lin, S. Keten, Scaling for the inverse thickness dependence of specific penetration energy in polymer thin film impact tests, J. Mech. Phys. Solids 161 (2022) 104808, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jmps.2022. 104808.
- [37] K. Xiao, X. Lei, Y. Chen, Q. An, D. Hu, C. Wang, X. Wu, C. Huang, Extraordinary impact resistance of carbon nanotube film with crosslinks under micro-ballistic impact, Carbon 175 (2021) 478–489, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2021. 01.009.
- [38] J.-H. Lee, P.E. Loya, J. Lou, E.L. Thomas, Dynamic mechanical behavior of multilayer graphene via supersonic projectile penetration, Science 346 (6213) (2014) 1092–1096, http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1258544.
- [39] J.W. Suk, R.D. Piner, J. An, R.S. Ruoff, Mechanical properties of monolayer graphene oxide, ACS Nano 4 (11) (2010) 6557–6564, http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ nn101781v.
- [40] C. Gómez-Navarro, M. Burghard, K. Kern, Elastic properties of chemically derived single graphene sheets, Nano Lett. 8 (7) (2008) 2045–2049, http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1021/nl801384y.
- [41] Y. Bu, K. Li, F. Guo, Z. Liang, J. Zhang, Mechanical behavior and failure mechanism of multilayer graphene oxides with various oxygen contents and functional types: A ReaxFF molecular dynamics simulation, Appl. Surf. Sci. 606 (2022) 154920, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2022.154920.
- [42] M. Tavakol, A. Montazeri, S.H. Aboutalebi, R. Asgari, Mechanical properties of graphene oxide: The impact of functional groups, Appl. Surf. Sci. 525 (2020) 146554, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2020.146554.
- [43] T. Li, Z. Meng, S. Keten, Interfacial mechanics and viscoelastic properties of patchy graphene oxide reinforced nanocomposites, Carbon 158 (2020) 303–313, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2019.10.039.
- [44] O.C. Compton, S.W. Cranford, K.W. Putz, Z. An, L.C. Brinson, M.J. Buehler, S.T. Nguyen, Tuning the mechanical properties of graphene oxide paper and its associated polymer nanocomposites by controlling cooperative intersheet hydrogen bonding, ACS Nano 6 (3) (2012) 2008–2019, http://dx.doi.org/10. 1021/nn202928w.
- [45] A. Giuntoli, N.K. Hansoge, A. van Beek, Z. Meng, W. Chen, S. Keten, Systematic coarse-graining of epoxy resins with machine learning-informed energy renormalization, npj Comput. Mater. 7 (1) (2021).
- [46] W. Xia, N.K. Hansoge, W.-S. Xu, F.R. Phelan, S. Keten, J.F. Douglas, Energy renormalization for coarse-graining polymers having different segmental structures, Sci. Adv. 5 (4) (2019) eaav4683, http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aav4683.
- [47] J. Song, D.D. Hsu, K.R. Shull, F.R.J. Phelan, J.F. Douglas, W. Xia, S. Keten, Energy renormalization method for the coarse-graining of polymer viscoelasticity, Macromolecules 51 (10) (2018) 3818–3827, http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs. macromol.7b02560.
- [48] T. Daio, T. Bayer, T. Ikuta, T. Nishiyama, K. Takahashi, Y. Takata, K. Sasaki, S.M. Lyth, In-situ ESEM and EELS observation of water uptake and ice formation in multilayer graphene oxide, Sci. Rep. 5 (1) (2015) http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ srep11807.
- [49] W. Li, W. Wu, Z. Li, Controlling interlayer spacing of graphene oxide membranes by external pressure regulation, ACS Nano 12 (9) (2018) 9309–9317, http: //dx.doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.8b04187.
- [50] T. Liu, B. Yang, N. Graham, W. Yu, K. Sun, Trivalent metal cation cross-linked graphene oxide membranes for NOM removal in water treatment, J. Membr. Sci. 542 (2017) 31–40, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.memsci.2017.07.061.
- [51] S. Plimpton, Fast parallel algorithms for short-range molecular dynamics, J. Comput. Phys. 117 (1) (1995) 1–19, http://dx.doi.org/10.1006/jcph.1995.1039.
- [52] MATLAB, version 9.13.0 (R2022b), The MathWorks Inc., Natick, Massachusetts, 2022.
- [53] A. Stukowski, Visualization and analysis of atomistic simulation data with OVITO–the open visualization tool, Modelling Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 18 (1) (2009) 015012, http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0965-0393/18/1/015012.
- [54] L. Ruiz, W. Xia, Z. Meng, S. Keten, A coarse-grained model for the mechanical behavior of multi-layer graphene, Carbon 82 (2015) 103–115, http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1016/j.carbon.2014.10.040.

- [55] X. Shen, X. Lin, N. Yousefi, J. Jia, J.-K. Kim, Wrinkling in graphene sheets and graphene oxide papers, Carbon 66 (2014) 84–92, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j. carbon.2013.08.046.
- [56] L. Torrisi, M. Cutroneo, V. Havranek, L. Silipigni, B. Fazio, M. Fazio, G. Di Marco, A. Stassi, A. Torrisi, Self-supporting graphene oxide films preparation and characterization methods, Vacuum 160 (2019) 1–11, http://dx.doi.org/10. 1016/j.vacuum.2018.11.001.
- [57] Y. Sun, X. Tang, H. Bao, Z. Yang, F. Ma, The effects of hydroxide and epoxide functional groups on the mechanical properties of graphene oxide and its failure mechanism by molecular dynamics simulations, RSC Adv. 10 (2020) 29610–29617, http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/D0RA04881J.
- [58] C. Chen, Q.-H. Yang, Y. Yang, W. Lv, Y. Wen, P.-X. Hou, M. Wang, H.-M. Cheng, Self-assembled free-standing graphite oxide membrane, Adv. Mater. 21 (29) (2009) 3007–3011, http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adma.200803726.
- [59] W. Gao, N. Zhao, W. Yao, Z. Xu, H. Bai, C. Gao, Effect of flake size on the mechanical properties of graphene aerogels prepared by freeze casting, RSC Adv. 7 (2017) 33600–33605, http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C7RA05557A.
- [60] L. Wang, S. Kanesalingam, R. Nayak, R. Padhye, Recent trends in ballistic protection, Textiles Light Ind. Sci. Technol. 3 (2014) 37–47.
- [61] M. Afshari, P. Chen, R. Kotek, Relationship between tensile properties and ballistic performance of poly(ethylene naphthalate) woven and nonwoven fabrics, J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 125 (3) (2012) 2271–2280, http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/app. 36442.
- [62] H. Hölscher, A. Schirmeisen, U.D. Schwarz, Principles of atomic friction: From sticking atoms to superlubric sliding, Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 366 (1869) (2008) 1383–1404, http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsta.2007.2164.
- [63] P.A. Thompson, M.O. Robbins, Origin of stick-slip motion in boundary lubrication, Science 250 (4982) (1990) 792–794, http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science. 250.4982.792.
- [64] Y. Wang, G. Colas, T. Filleter, Improvements in the mechanical properties of carbon nanotube fibers through graphene oxide interlocking, Carbon 98 (2016) 291–299, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2015.11.008.
- [65] A. Klechikov, J. Yu, D. Thomas, T. Sharifi, A.V. Talyzin, Structure of graphene oxide membranes in solvents and solutions, Nanoscale 7 (37) (2015) 15374–15384, http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c5nr04096e.
- [66] T. Zhang, X. Li, H. Gao, Defects controlled wrinkling and topological design in graphene, J. Mech. Phys. Solids 67 (2014) 2–13, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j. jmps.2014.02.005.
- [67] F. Hao, D. Fang, Z. Xu, Mechanical and thermal transport properties of graphene with defects, Appl. Phys. Lett. 99 (4) (2011) 041901, http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/ 1.3615290.
- [68] Z. Zhang, B. Liu, Y. Huang, K. Hwang, H. Gao, Mechanical properties of unidirectional nanocomposites with non-uniformly or randomly staggered platelet distribution, J. Mech. Phys. Solids 58 (10) (2010) 1646–1660, http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1016/j.jmps.2010.07.004.
- [69] F. Barthelat, Designing nacre-like materials for simultaneous stiffness, strength and toughness: Optimum materials, composition, microstructure and size, J. Mech. Phys. Solids 73 (2014) 22–37, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jmps.2014.08. 008.
- [70] N. Abid, M. Mirkhalaf, F. Barthelat, Discrete-element modeling of nacre-like materials: Effects of random microstructures on strain localization and mechanical performance, J. Mech. Phys. Solids 112 (2018) 385–402, http://dx.doi.org/10. 1016/j.jmps.2017.11.003.
- [71] B.C. Marchi, S. Keten, Microstructure and size effects on the mechanics of two dimensional, high aspect ratio nanoparticle assemblies, Front. Mater. 6 (2019) http://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fmats.2019.00174.
- [72] K.Z. Donato, H.L. Tan, V.S. Marangoni, M.V.S. Martins, P.R. Ng, M.C.F. Costa, P. Jain, S.J. Lee, G.K.W. Koon, R.K. Donato, A.H.C. Neto, Graphene oxide classification and standardization, Sci. Rep. 13 (1) (2023) http://dx.doi.org/10. 1038/s41598-023-33350-5.
- [73] J. Chen, Y. Li, L. Huang, C. Li, G. Shi, High-yield preparation of graphene oxide from small graphite flakes via an improved hummers method with a simple purification process, Carbon 81 (2015) 826–834, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j. carbon.2014.10.033.
- [74] J.W. Pro, R.K. Lim, L.R. Petzold, M. Utz, M.R. Begley, The impact of stochastic microstructures on the macroscopic fracture properties of brick and mortar composites, Extreme Mech. Lett. 5 (2015) 1–9, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.eml. 2015.09.001.
- [75] N.V. Medhekar, A. Ramasubramaniam, R.S. Ruoff, V.B. Shenoy, Hydrogen bond networks in graphene oxide composite paper: Structure and mechanical properties, ACS Nano 4 (4) (2010) 2300–2306, http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ nn901934u.
- [76] Brodie vs hummers graphite oxides for preparation of multi-layered materials, Carbon 115 (2017) 430–440, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2016.12.097.
- [77] L.E. Paniagua-Guerra, M. Terrones, B. Ramos-Alvarado, Effects of moisture and synthesis-derived contaminants on the mechanical properties of graphene oxide: A molecular dynamics investigation, SSRN Electron. J. (2022) http://dx.doi.org/ 10.2139/ssrn.4116208.