pubs.acs.org/NanoLett Letter

# Superior Energy Dissipation by Ultrathin Semicrystalline Polymer Films Under Supersonic Microprojectile Impacts

Jizhe Cai and Ramathasan Thevamaran\*

Cite This: Nano Lett. 2020, 20, 5632-5638

ACCESS

Metrics & More

Article Recommendations

Supporting Information

**ABSTRACT:** Distinct deformation mechanisms that emerge in nanoscale enable the nanostructured materials to exhibit outstanding specific mechanical properties. Here, we present superior microstructure- and strain-rate-dependent specific penetration energy (up to  $\sim 3.8 \text{ MJ kg}^{-1}$ ) in semicrystalline poly(vinylidene fluoride-co-trifluoroethylene) (P(VDF-TrFE)) thin films subjected to high-velocity (100 m s<sup>-1</sup> to 1 km s<sup>-1</sup>) microprojectile (diameter: 9.2  $\mu$ m) impacts. The geometric-confinement-induced nanostructural evolutions enable the sub-100 nm thick P(VDF-TrFE) films to achieve high specific penetration energy with high strain delocalization across the broad impact velocity range, superior to both bulk protective materials and previously reported nanomaterials. This high specific penetration energy arises from the substantial stretching of the two-dimensionally

oriented highly mobile polymer chains that engage abundant viscoelastic and viscoplastic deformation mechanisms that are further enhanced by the intermolecular dipole—dipole interactions. These key findings provide insights for using nanostructured semicrystalline polymers in the development of lightweight, high-performance soft armors for extreme engineering applications.

KEYWORDS: energy dissipation, geometric confinement, semicrystalline polymer, supersonic impact, soft armor

aking strong, tough, lightweight, and soft protective materials, typically called "armor", has always been a major pursuit throughout history for human survival in everincreasing external dangers and threats. With the emergence of nanotechnology, the discovery of new nanomaterials has offered a greater number of opportunities to develop highperformance armor with outstanding "specific" mechanical properties<sup>2-6</sup> and novel failure-proof toughening mechanisms.<sup>7-12</sup> High specific energy dissipation and rapid strain delocalization are critical for mitigating high-speed projectile impacts.<sup>8,9,13</sup> The specific energy dissipation is the kinetic energy of a projectile dissipated by a unit weight of material upon impact, and the strain delocalization characterizes how far the impact-induced displacement field propagates in the material. Benefiting from the development of laser-induced microprojectile impact testing (LIPIT) and nanoscale characterization approaches, the distinct protective mechanisms of various nanomaterials have recently been studied. 8,9,13-15 The multilayer graphene (MLG) has initially been shown to exhibit higher specific penetration energy compared to macroscopic protective materials, due to its superior inplane sound speed, strength, and stiffness.8 Following this direction, graphene-oxide/silk fibroin nanocomposite thin films and carbon nanotube yarns have been developed, which also showed improvement in specific penetration energy from the high-performance nanoscale constituents and their interfacial interactions. 13,15 Compared to employing these stiff nanomaterials, surprisingly, ultrathin polymer films exhibit even higher specific penetration energy due to the size-dependent energy dissipation mechanisms; <sup>9,14</sup> however, this behavior is highly dependent on high-speed projectile impactinduced heating.

Semicrystalline polymers, such as, polyethylene (PE), poly(*p*-phenylene terephthalamide) (PPTA), and polytetra-fluoroethylene (PTFE) that are widely used in high-strain-rate protective applications, exhibit more complex rate- and temperature-dependent deformation mechanisms that stem from their microstructure, including crystallinity, and molecular conformation. The semicrystalline polymers are usually treated as a two-phase structure with a "rigid" crystalline phase distributed within the "soft" amorphous matrix. The thin (100 nm to 1000 nm) and ultrathin (less than 100 nm) semicrystalline polymer films have attracted recent attention due to their unique geometric-confinement-induced microstructural evolutions and physical property changes. <sup>19–21</sup> Similarly, experimental investigations on nanofibers made of

Received: January 6, 2020 Revised: April 17, 2020 Published: April 23, 2020

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Figure 1.** (a) Illustration of the LIPIT. (b) A 73 nm thick transparent P(VDF-TrFE) film mounted on the copper hoop. Scale bar = 1 cm. (c) Perforation process of a 73 nm thick film by a microprojectile. Scale bar =  $100 \, \mu \text{m}$ . (d) SEM images of the polymer film before and after projectile perforation. Scale bar =  $50 \, \mu \text{m}$ . (e) X-ray diffraction spectra of P(VDF-TrFE) films of different thicknesses with and without thermal annealing, and (f) calculated crystallinity and crystal size of P(VDF-TrFE) with different fabrication conditions.

**Figure 2.** (a) SEM images of perforated films with different crystallinities and impact speeds; the white, blue, and red dashed circles indicate the projectile size, impact influence (deformation) zone, and perforation hole, respectively. For the films that exhibited brittle behavior, the impact influence zone encircles the longest crazes around the perforation hole, and the influence zone in the films that deformed in a ductile manner is directly measured from the electron channeling contrast in SEM images. Scale bar = 5  $\mu$ m. (b) Influence zone area corresponding to different films from 1 km s<sup>-1</sup> impact, and (c) postpenetration residual speed of the projectile as a function of impact speed for different samples.

poly(vinylidene fluoride-*co*-trifluoroethylene) (P(VDF-TrFE)), a widely used piezoelectric polymer, showed that the geometric confinement of fiber diameter to subhundred nanometers leads to outstanding Young's modulus ( $\sim$ 80 GPa),<sup>22</sup> and when the nanofibers are twisted into yarn, the yarn exhibits high toughness ( $\sim$ 98 J/g)<sup>23</sup> due to the piezoelectrically enhanced interactions among fibers. However, the effects of geometric-confinement-induced microstructural evolutions and their intrinsic effects on the dynamic behavior

of semicrystalline polymers remain elusive because of the limitations in small-scale dynamic testing techniques. The successful development of soft protective materials using such polymers requires a fundamental understanding of their underlying structure—property relations in a dynamic regime.

Here, we use P(VDF-TrFE) as a model material system to study the relationship between the nanostructure and dynamic properties of semicrystalline polymers under ultrahigh-strain-rate deformations (up to  $10^8$  s<sup>-1</sup>), by an advanced LIPIT

system built at the University of Wisconsin-Madison (Figure 1a). Free-standing P(VDF-TrFE) films fabricated by spincoating (Figure 1b) in different thicknesses, from 73 to 432 nm, were deposited on 100 square mesh Ni TEM grids and placed  $\sim 500 \ \mu m$  away from the projectile launch pad, a glass substrate coated first with a 50 nm gold layer (laser ablation layer) followed by a 25  $\mu$ m thick cross-linked polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) layer. Individual silica projectiles (diameter ~ 9.2  $\mu$ m) deposited on the launch pad were selectively launched by the rapid expansion of PDMS film via laser-ablationinduced gold vaporization (Figure 1c).8 A broad range of projectile impact velocities from 100 m s<sup>-1</sup> to 1 km s<sup>-1</sup> was achieved by varying the ablation laser energy. The impact of supersonic (up to Mach 3) microprojectile on the nanoscale polymer films results in high-strain-rate ( $\sim 10^7$  to  $10^8$  S<sup>1-</sup>; see Supporting Information) deformation of the films. 9,13 The film morphology before and after perforation (Figure 1d) was imaged in high resolution scanning electron microscopy (SEM) to investigate the deformation mechanisms. The impact/perforation process of the films was recorded in an ultrafast multiexposure image by a microscope camera illuminated by pico-second white-laser pulses at an interval of 103-154 ns. The projectile speeds before and after perforation of the target were calculated from the measured distance between adjacent snapshots of projectiles divided by the time interval between consecutive imaging laser pulses and corrected for deceleration due to air-drag (drag coefficient measurement and projectile speed correction methods are provided in the Supporting Information and follow the Supporting Information of ref 9).

We control the microstructure of P(VDF-TrFE) films through size (thickness) confinement and thermal annealing, which modifies the crystalline structure and polymer chain conformation within the semicrystalline polymer films. 19,24 The XRD peak that appears at  $2\theta \sim 19.8^{\circ}$  originates from the (110)/(200) reflection planes of  $\beta$ -phase crystallites in the film (Figure 1e,f)).<sup>24</sup> When the film thickness is decreased from 432 to 73 nm, a reduction in both crystallinity and crystal size within the film is evident, indicating the geometric-confinement-induced aversion to crystallization during fabrication, which has also been observed previously in spin-coated semicrystalline polymer films, 19,25-27 and was attributed to the strain incompatibility between adjacent crystalline domains that favors amorphous structure.<sup>26</sup> Moreover, the polymer chain backbone and crystal lamellae tend to orient in-plane as the polymer film thickness is decreased to a sub-100 nm scale. 28,29 The postfabrication thermal annealing increases the crystallinity and crystal size of both thick (432 nm) and ultrathin (79 nm) P(VDF-TrFE) films to a comparable level (Figure 1f) (see calculations in Supporting Information).

The postimpact SEM images of the damage zone of the polymer films with different crystallinities and impact speeds are shown in Figure 2a. The annealed thick polymer films show the formation of radial mature fibrillated microcrazes around the perforation area with stretched and broken fibrils connecting the two edges of the crazes (see inset of Figure 2a (iii)), indicating a brittle failure process under high-speed (200 m s<sup>-1</sup> to 1 km s<sup>-1</sup>) projectile impacts. The radial microcraze growth from the perforation hole with still load-bearing stretched nanofibrils demonstrates the roles played by the strong tangential tensile forces during the equibiaxial stretching of the thin film. In medium- to high-speed impacts (600 m s<sup>-1</sup> to 1 km s<sup>-1</sup>), some polymer melt is found around

the impact region, which was caused by the impact-induced adiabatic heating of the polymer.<sup>9</sup>

The nonannealed P(VDF-TrFE) thin films with the same thickness (432 nm) as the annealed sample exhibit ductile behavior as evident in folded and significantly stretched film flaps around the perforation hole, Figure 2a (v). This brittle-toductile transition in failure mechanism is associated with the decrease in both crystallinity (59-34%) and crystal size (10.3-8.8 nm). Since the segmental mobility of polymer chains in the amorphous phase of the semicrystalline polymers is highly restricted by the nearby crystalline domains, the reduction of such constraints in nonannealed films contribute to the improved polymer chain mobility, hence result in a ductile behavior. It is found that the annealed 432 nm thick films with brittle failure exhibit twice as large influence zone than the nonannealed pristine 432 nm thick films (Figure 2b) (influence zone in the brittle film is characterized by the farthest propagating craze). Since the  $T_g$  of P(VDF-TrFE) is -36 °C,  $^{30}$  the as-fabricated pristine polymer films are in the rubbery state at room temperature. During impact by the spherical projectile, a strong equibiaxial tensile stress develops within the impact zone of the film, which stretches the film in a conical shape (Figure 2a (vi)), evidenced by the nearly circular shape of perforation holes in films with all three thicknesses (Figure 2a (iv, vii, x)). These deformation characteristics are distinct from the damage zone morphology of annealed films with fractured edges and radial crazes, and of the previously studied glassy PS polymer thin films with numerous radial and tangential crazes.

As the film thickness decreases to 73 nm, an increase in the perforation hole area and the impact influence zone are evident (Figure 2b and Figure S2), suggesting a film-thicknessdependent dynamic deformation response of the polymer films. This enlarged deformed area implies higher strain delocalization that occurred in the thinner films during projectile penetration. The deformation and failure mechanism of 73 nm thick films change as the projectile impact speed is decreased from 1 km s<sup>-1</sup> to <400 m s<sup>-1</sup>, with strain rate decreases from  $1 \times 10^8$  s<sup>-1</sup> to  $2 \times 10^7$  s<sup>-1</sup>, as seen in the circular to oval shape change of the perforation hole, increase in the perforation hole area, and the extent of stretched film flaps (Figure 2a (x-xii)), which also indicate the significant contribution of viscoelastic and viscoplastic deformations. Figure 2c shows the postpenetration residual speed of the projectile corresponding to each impact speed. The critical impact speed necessary to perforate the films with 73, 165, and 423 nm thickness is  $\sim$ 186, 325, and 440 m s<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. The annealed 432 and 79 nm films are penetrated at much lower critical speeds (<200 m s<sup>-1</sup>) compared to the pristine films with the same thickness.

The penetration energy  $(E_{\rm p})$  of the material during projectile perforation is calculated from the kinetic energy loss of the projectile  $(\Delta KE)$ : $E_{\rm p} = \Delta KE = \frac{1}{2} m_{\rm p} (v_{\rm i}^2 - v_{\rm r}^2)$ , where  $m_{\rm p}$  is the mass of the projectile, and  $v_{\rm i}$  and  $v_{\rm r}$  are the impact and residual speeds of projectile right before and after perforation (calculated accounting for the air-drag-induced projectile deceleration, see Supporting Information). To quantitatively compare different materials tested at different sample thicknesses and with various projectile sizes, the specific penetration energy  $(E_{\rm p}^*)$  is calculated by normalizing the penetration energy by the mass of the polymer films within the projectile strike area  $(m_{\rm s})$ ,  $E_{\rm p}^{*}=E_{\rm p}/(\rho A_{\rm s}t)$ , with polymer

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 3. (a) The specific penetration energy  $(E_p^*)$  of P(VDF-TrFE) films with different thicknesses and (b) the  $E_p^*$  of as-fabricated and thermal-annealed P(VDF-TrFE) films impacted at different speeds.

Figure 4. (a) Geometric-confinement-induced nanostructural evolution of ultrathin P(VDF-TrFE) film. (b) Thinner polymer film exhibits higher tensile deformation, which brings in the significant improvement in strain delocalization and energy dissipation. (c) Cross section of the stretched film during projectile impact showing potential energy dissipation mechanisms, including polymer chain mutual sliding, reorientation, flow toward the impact zone, and intracrystal sliding and fragmentation of crystalline domains.

density  $\rho$ , strike area  $A_s$  (projected area of the projectile on the film), and sample thickness t.<sup>9,13</sup>

Figure 3a shows the  $E_{\rm p}^*$  of the P(VDF-TrFE) films as a function of projectile impact speed. The substantial film stretching in pristine films dissipates a large amount of kinetic energy via highly nonlinear viscoelastic deformation, yielding, and viscoplastic flow at large strains and high strain rates, similar to other bulk semicrystalline polymers such as PTFE. The impact-induced adiabatic heating of polymer samples within the strike area rapidly raises its local temperature and causes a viscoelastic melt flow within the strike region. Compared to glassy PS that exhibited much of the energy dissipation through such melt flow, the pristine rubbery P(VDF-TrFE) films dissipate significantly more energy through film's homogeneous viscoelastic and viscoplastic deformations that occur far beyond the strike region even at

low impact velocities. As the impact velocity is increased, the  $E_{\rm p}^*$  increases, potentially from the rate-dependent yield and hardening behavior in polymers.  $^{31,32}$  When the film thickness is reduced to sub-100 nm, significant microstructure- and strain-rate-dependent dynamic response emerges. The 73 nm thick P(VDF-TrFE) films impacted at 1 km s<sup>-1</sup> exhibit the highest  $E_{\rm p}^*$  of  $3.80\pm0.47$  MJ kg<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 3a), which is ~76% higher than that of the 432 nm thick films. The annealed samples exhibit much lower  $E_{\rm p}^*$  in the entire range of projectile impact speeds (Figure 3b). Considering its larger influence zone (Figure 2b), the brittle failure with highly localized craze growth is ineffective in dissipating kinetic energy compared to pristine films that exhibit ductile deformation. The ultrathin (79 nm) annealed film exhibits slightly higher  $E_{\rm p}^*$  than the thick (432 nm) annealed films, and

the difference in their  $E_{\rm p}^*$  increases as the projectile impact speed is increased.

The geometric confinement of P(VDF-TrFE) in ultrathin films induces considerable microstructural evolutions as illustrated in Figure 4a. The bulk polymer or thick films have a greater number of large-sized crystalline domains (higher crystallinity) randomly distributed within the amorphous polymer matrix, which constrains polymer chain mobility, especially within the interior regions. Higher crystallinity increases the modulus and decreases the ductility of bulk semicrystalline polymers.<sup>24</sup> The mobility of less-mobile polymer chains in thick films is further reduced at higher strain rates because of chain stiffening,<sup>33</sup> which results in rather brittle-like localized deformation. In contrast, the thickness of the ultrathin (73 nm) films are comparable to the end-to-end distance (46 nm) of the polymer chains in amorphous regions, which amplifies the microstructural evolution. This geometric confinement results in the reduction of crystallinity and crystalline domain sizes and increases the fraction of polymer chains in the amorphous phase within the interior of the sample. Additionally, the fraction of less-entangled highly mobile polymer chains in the near-free-surface region significantly increases with their preferential orientation parallel to the film surface, <sup>28,29,34</sup> which results in higher strain-to-failure of the film. The effects of mobile near-surface chains in ultrathin films are also evident in the annealed films, where the ultrathin annealed films exhibit higher  $E_p^*$  compared to the annealed thick films, regardless of their similar crystallinity (Figure 1f). When the projectile impact velocity is increased, the contribution of near-surface chains are further enhanced by the impact-induced adiabatic heating and the resultant energy dissipation from viscoelastic melt flow.<sup>9</sup>

Therefore, the sub-100 nm ultrathin nonannealed films exhibit significant ductile behavior arising from the long-range polymer chain mobility in both near-surface and interior regions. During impact, the forward-moving projectile causes equibiaxial tensile stresses and viscoelastically stretches the polymer film into a conical shape, Figure 4b. This material flow into the impact region engages substantial mutual polymer chains sliding and orienting along the principal stretch directions, Figure 4c. The van der Waals (vdW) interactions are the primary bonding between nearby chains in ultrathin P(VDF-TrFE) films. Besides the weak dispersion forces from nonpolar C-H bonds, the existence of relatively stronger dipole-dipole interactions from strongly polar C-F bonds increases the intermolecular attractive forces. Significant energy can be dissipated as a result of the cumulative effects of vdW interactions among polymer chains that are highly extended along the film stretching direction. At high strains, intracrystal sliding and fragmentation of crystalline domains also start to participate in dissipating energy. Because of the low crystallinity of the piezoelectrically responsive  $\beta$ -phase (alltrans) in ultrathin P(VDF-TrFE) films (Figure 1(e,f)), the contribution of Coulombic interactions to energy dissipation is negligible compared to other mechanisms described above. At high strains, adiabatic heating (> $T_c \sim 101$  °C) in the strike region can also deteriorate the piezoelectric effects. The synergistic interplay among these energy dissipation mechanisms leads to the observed superior  $E_p^*$  of the ultrathin P(VDF-TrFE) films under supersonic microprojectile impacts.

We compare the  $E_p^*$  of ultrathin (73 nm) P(VDF-TrFE) films corresponding to different projectile impact speeds to both bulk protective materials, including steel, aluminum,

Kevlar/PVB composite, and carbon fiber reinforced plastics (CFRP), <sup>36–41</sup> from macroscopic testing, and different kinds of nanomaterials, annealed 432 nm thick P(VDF-TrFE) films (this work), polystyrene and polycarbonate thin films, multilayer graphene, and graphene oxide nanocomposites, <sup>8,9,13,14</sup> from LIPIT, Figure 5. To ensure the validity of

**Figure 5.** Specific penetration energy  $(E_p^*)$  of ultrathin P(VDF-TrFE) films compared to annealed 432 nm thick P(VDF-TrFE) films and other protective materials.  $^{8,9,13,14,36-41}$ 

comparing our study with previous studies that utilized smaller sizes of microprojectiles in LIPIT, we additionally investigated the effects of a smaller projectile (4.08  $\mu$ m) on the  $E_n^*$  of our ultrathin P(VDF-TrFE) films. The measured  $E_p^*$  (Figure S5) shows that the effects of projectile size are not considerable. The important experimental parameters of all of these studies are summarized in Table S1. Compared to the widely used macroscopic protective materials, ultrathin P(VDF-TrFE) films exhibit superior  $E_p^*$  across a broad range of projectile impact velocities. For instance, the  $E_p^*$  of P(VDF-TrFE) is ~5.8 times that of steel $^{37,38}$  and CFRP plates $^{41}$  at  $\sim 1~{\rm km~s^{-1}}$  impact and ~4.3 times that of Kevlar/PVB composite plates<sup>36</sup> at ~400 m s<sup>-1</sup> impact. Compared to nanomaterials, the P(VDF-TrFE) polymer thin films exhibit significantly higher dynamic mechanical performance with distinct energy dissipation mechanisms;  $E_p^*$  of ultrathin P(VDF-TrFE) is  $\sim 2.2$  times that of the annealed 432 nm thick P(VDF-TrFE) film (1.74 MJ  $kg^{-1}$  at 1 km s<sup>-1</sup> impact) and ~2.7 times that of multilayer graphene (1.26 MJ  $kg^{-1}$  at 900 m s<sup>-1</sup> impact).<sup>8</sup> Although the performance of ultrathin P(VDF-TrFE) films is comparable to PS at high impact speeds (800 m s<sup>-1</sup>, the direct kinetic energy transferred to plug is added to the reported  $E_p$  to be consistent with other works<sup>8</sup>), the P(VDF-TrFE) films exhibit outstanding performance across a broad range of velocities, and the P(VDF-TrFE) exhibits much higher  $E_p^*$  (~5.4 times) at low velocity (400 m s<sup>-1</sup>) impacts.<sup>9</sup>

In contrast to rigid protective materials, dynamic energy dissipation in polymeric materials always comes with relatively large deformations, which may result in significant behind armor blunt trauma (BABT), a nonpenetrating injury from rapid deformation of armor. <sup>42</sup> This has limited the application of soft polymeric materials in ballistic protection. However, such deformable thin films are suitable candidates for creating

<span id="page-5-0"></span>"ambient armors", where the armor that is made of stacked nanoscale films is placed at a standoff distance from the target, which needs protection.<sup>43</sup> On the contrary to a traditional armor design strategy, which utilizes ultrastrong and stiff materials to mitigate ballistic impacts, here we demonstrate that extensive viscoelastic and viscoplastic deformation of ultrathin rubbery semicrystalline polymer films leads to superior specific energy absorption over a broad impact velocity range from 100 m s<sup>-1</sup> to 1 km s<sup>-1</sup>. For instance, to stop a projectile (diameter: 9.2  $\mu$ m) traveling at 1 km s<sup>-1</sup> velocity by a multilayered stacked film (neglecting interactions between subsequent films), the required total film thickness decreases from  $\sim$ 4.3  $\mu$ m for annealed 432 nm thick films (10 layers) to  $\sim$ 1.4  $\mu$ m for 73 nm thick films (19 layers), which significantly reduces the weight of the "armor" by 68% (Figure S6; calculation method in Supporting Information). The layer-by-layer fabrication methods<sup>44</sup> for large area ultrathin polymer films will enable scaling up of the fabrication process with multimaterial components that can function in different extreme environments.

In summary, we experimentally demonstrated the superior dynamic performance of ultrathin P(VDF-TrFE) films using an advanced LIPIT technique and correlated their  $E_{\rm p}{}^*$  and strain delocalization performance to the material's fabrication processes and their nanostructural evolution for the first time. The highest  $E_p^*$  achieved for ultrathin P(VDF-TrFE) film is significantly higher than that of macroscopic protective materials and previously studied nanomaterials. Geometric confinement in ultrathin films hinders the crystallization process and facilitates the polymer chains to orient parallel to the film surface. With the contribution of those highly mobile two-dimensionally oriented polymer chains, extensive viscoelastic and viscoplastic deformation occurs during projectile penetration. The cumulative effects of relatively stronger vdW forces from the dipole-dipole interactions between polar C-F bonds in polymer chains oriented along the stretching direction further strengthens and toughens the P(VDF-TrFE) thin films. Along with local adiabatic heating within the strike region at high velocities, these deformation processes effectively dissipate the kinetic energy of the supersonic projectile. Our study opens novel design pathways for fabricating lightweight, soft armor materials with superior dynamic performance by employing nanoscale semicrystalline polymeric films with tailored micro/nanostructures.

# ASSOCIATED CONTENT

## Supporting Information

The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.nanolett.0c00066.

Experimental details including fabrication of polymer film and postprocessing treatment, dynamic mechanical performance characterization, microstructure characterization, and several complementary results (PDF)

# AUTHOR INFORMATION

# **Corresponding Author**

Ramathasan Thevamaran — Department of Engineering Physics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, United States; orcid.org/0000-0001-5058-6167; Email: thevamaran@wisc.edu

# **Author**

Jizhe Cai — Department of Engineering Physics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, United States; ⊙ orcid.org/0000-0003-2803-2111

Complete contact information is available at: https://pubs.acs.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.0c00066

#### Notes

The authors declare no competing financial interest.

# ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Support for this research was provided by the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research and Graduate Education with funding from the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation. The use of facilities and instrumentation at the University of Wisconsin-Madison's Wisconsin Centers for Nanoscale Technology partially supported by the NSF through the University of Wisconsin Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (DMR-1720415) is also acknowledged. We also thank Claire Griesbach for her assistance in performing FIB cross-sectioning of impacted samples for analysis, and Sadegh Yazdi (University of Colorado-Boulder) for useful conversations.

## REFERENCES

- (1) Yadav, R.; Naebe, M.; Wang, X.; Kandasubramanian, B. Body armour materials: from steel to contemporary biomimetic systems. *RSC Adv.* **2016**, *6* (116), 115145–115174.
- (2) Lee, C.; Wei, X.; Kysar, J. W.; Hone, J. Measurement of the Elastic Properties and Intrinsic Strength of Monolayer Graphene. *Science* **2008**, 321 (5887), 385.
- (3) Peng, B.; Locascio, M.; Zapol, P.; Li, S. Y.; Mielke, S. L.; Schatz, G. C.; Espinosa, H. D. Measurements of near-ultimate strength for multiwalled carbon nanotubes and irradiation-induced crosslinking improvements. *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2008**, *3* (10), 626–631.
- (4) Shrestha, R.; Li, P.; Chatterjee, B.; Zheng, T.; Wu, X.; Liu, Z.; Luo, T.; Choi, S.; Hippalgaonkar, K.; de Boer, M. P.; Shen, S. Crystalline polymer nanofibers with ultra-high strength and thermal conductivity. *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9* (1), 1664.
- (5) Cai, J.; Naraghi, M. The formation of highly ordered graphitic interphase around embedded CNTs controls the mechanics of ultrastrong carbonized nanofibers. *Acta Mater.* **2019**, *162*, 46–54.
- (6) Papkov, D.; Zou, Y.; Andalib, M. N.; Goponenko, A.; Cheng, S. Z. D.; Dzenis, Y. A. Simultaneously Strong and Tough Ultrafine Continuous Nanofibers. *ACS Nano* **2013**, *7* (4), 3324–3331.
- (7) Lee, J.-H.; Veysset, D.; Singer, J. P.; Retsch, M.; Saini, G.; Pezeril, T.; Nelson, K. A.; Thomas, E. L. High strain rate deformation of layered nanocomposites. *Nat. Commun.* **2012**, *3*, 1164.
- (8) Lee, J.-H.; Loya, P. E.; Lou, J.; Thomas, E. L. Dynamic mechanical behavior of multilayer graphene via supersonic projectile penetration. *Science* **2014**, 346 (6213), 1092–1096.
- (9) Hyon, J.; Lawal, O.; Fried, O.; Thevamaran, R.; Yazdi, S.; Zhou, M.; Veysset, D.; Kooi, S. E.; Jiao, Y.; Hsiao, M.-S.; Streit, J.; Vaia, R. A.; Thomas, E. L. Extreme Energy Absorption in Glassy Polymer Thin Films by Supersonic Micro-projectile Impact. *Mater. Today* **2018**, *21* (8), 817–824.
- (10) Cai, J.; Naraghi, M. Non-intertwined graphitic domains in nanoscale leads to super strong and tough continuous 1D nanostructures. *Carbon* **2018**, *137*, 242–251.
- (11) Yin, Z.; Hannard, F.; Barthelat, F. Impact-resistant nacre-like transparent materials. *Science* **2019**, *364* (6447), 1260–1263.
- (12) Liao, X.; Dulle, M.; de Souza e Silva, J. M.; Wehrspohn, R. B.; Agarwal, S.; Förster, S.; Hou, H.; Smith, P.; Greiner, A. High strength in combination with high toughness in robust and sustainable polymeric materials. *Science* **2019**, *366* (6471), 1376.

- <span id="page-6-0"></span>(13) Xie, W.; Tadepalli, S.; Park, S. H.; Kazemi-Moridani, A.; Jiang, Q.; Singamaneni, S.; Lee, J.-H. [Extreme Mechanical Behavior of](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.7b04421) [Nacre-Mimetic Graphene-Oxide and Silk Nanocomposites.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.7b04421) Nano Lett. 2018, 18 (2), 987−993.
- (14) Chan, E. P.; Xie, W.; Orski, S. V.; Lee, J.-H.; Soles, C. L. [Entanglement Density-Dependent Energy Absorption of Polycarbon](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acsmacrolett.9b00264)[ate Films via Supersonic Fracture.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acsmacrolett.9b00264) ACS Macro Lett. 2019, 8 (7), 806− 811.
- (15) Xie, W.; Zhang, R.; Headrick, R. J.; Taylor, L. W.; Kooi, S.; Pasquali, M.; Müftü, S.; Lee, J.-H. [Dynamic Strengthening of Carbon](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.9b00350) [Nanotube Fibers under Extreme Mechanical Impulses.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.9b00350) Nano Lett. 2019, 19 (6), 3519−3526.
- (16) Siviour, C. R.; Jordan, J. L[. High Strain Rate Mechanics of](https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s40870-016-0052-8) [Polymers: A Review.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s40870-016-0052-8) Journal of Dynamic Behavior of Materials 2016, 2 (1), 15−32.
- (17) Jordan, J. L.; Siviour, C. R.; Foley, J. R.; Brown, E. N. [Compressive properties of extruded polytetrafluoroethylene.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2007.05.038) Polymer 2007, 48 (14), 4184−4195.
- (18) Brown, E. N.; Dattelbaum, D. M. [The role of crystalline phase](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2005.01.061) [on fracture and microstructure evolution of polytetrafluoroethylene](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2005.01.061) [\(PTFE\).](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2005.01.061) Polymer 2005, 46 (9), 3056−3068.
- (19) Himmelberger, S.; Dacuña, J.; Rivnay, J.; Jimison, L. H.; McCarthy-Ward, T.; Heeney, M.; McCulloch, I.; Toney, M. F.; Salleo, A. [Effects of Confinement on Microstructure and Charge Transport in](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201202408) [High Performance Semicrystalline Polymer Semiconductors.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201202408) Adv. Funct. Mater. 2013, 23 (16), 2091−2098.
- (20) Alcoutlabi, M.; McKenna, G. B[. Effects of confinement on](https://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0953-8984/17/15/R01) [material behaviour at the nanometre size scale.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0953-8984/17/15/R01) J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 2005, 17 (15), R461−R524.
- (21) Lee, J.-H.; Chung, J. Y.; Stafford, C. M[. Effect of Confinement](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/mz200090a) [on Stiffness and Fracture of Thin Amorphous Polymer Films.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/mz200090a) ACS Macro Lett. 2012, 1 (1), 122−126.
- (22) Ico, G.; Showalter, A.; Bosze, W.; Gott, S. C.; Kim, B. S.; Rao, M. P.; Myung, N. V.; Nam, J[. Size-dependent piezoelectric and](https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C5TA10423H) [mechanical properties of electrospun P\(VDF-TrFE\) nanofibers for](https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C5TA10423H) [enhanced energy harvesting.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C5TA10423H) J. Mater. Chem. A 2016, 4 (6), 2293− 2304.
- (23) Baniasadi, M.; Huang, J.; Xu, Z.; Moreno, S.; Yang, X.; Chang, J.; Quevedo-Lopez, M. A.; Naraghi, M.; Minary-Jolandan, M[. High-](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/am508812a)[Performance Coils and Yarns of Polymeric Piezoelectric Nanofibers.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/am508812a) ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2015, 7 (9), 5358−5366.
- (24) Xu, Z.; Baniasadi, M.; Moreno, S.; Cai, J.; Naraghi, M.; Minary-Jolandan, M. [Evolution of electromechanical and morphological](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2016.10.055) [properties of piezoelectric thin films with thermomechanical](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2016.10.055) [processing.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2016.10.055) Polymer 2016, 106, 62−71.
- (25) Frank, C. W.; Rao, V.; Despotopoulou, M. M.; Pease, R. F. W.; Hinsberg, W. D.; Miller, R. D.; Rabolt, J. F. [Structure in Thin and](https://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.273.5277.912) [Ultrathin Spin-Cast Polymer Films.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.273.5277.912) Science 1996, 273 (5277), 912.
- (26) Zhang, Q. M.; Xu, H.; Fang, F.; Cheng, Z. Y.; Xia, F.; You, H. [Critical thickness of crystallization and discontinuous change in](https://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.1344585) [ferroelectric behavior with thickness in ferroelectric polymer thin](https://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.1344585) [films.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.1344585) J. Appl. Phys. 2001, 89 (5), 2613−2616.
- (27) Xia, F.; Razavi, B.; Xu, H.; Cheng, Z. Y.; Zhang, Q. M. [Dependence of threshold thickness of crystallization and film](https://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.1503395) [morphology on film processing conditions in poly\(vinylidene](https://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.1503395) [fluoride-trifluoroethylene\) copolymer thin films.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.1503395) J. Appl. Phys. 2002, 92 (6), 3111−3115.
- (28) Guo, D.; Setter, N[. Impact of Confinement-Induced](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ma302377q) [Cooperative Molecular Orientation Change on the Ferroelectric](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ma302377q) [Size Effect in Ultrathin P\(VDF-TrFE\) Films.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ma302377q) Macromolecules 2013, 46 (5), 1883−1889.
- (29) Jones, R. L.; Kumar, S. K.; Ho, D. L.; Briber, R. M.; Russell, T. P[. Chain conformation in ultrathin polymer films.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1038/22080) Nature 1999, 400 (6740), 146−149.
- (30) Teyssedre, G.; Bernes, A.; Lacabanne, C[. DSC and TSC study](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0040-6031(93)80207-Q) [of a VDF/TrFE copolymer.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0040-6031(93)80207-Q) Thermochim. Acta 1993, 226, 65−75.
- (31) Siviour, C. R.; Walley, S. M.; Proud, W. G.; Field, J. E[. The high](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2005.10.109) [strain rate compressive behaviour of polycarbonate and polyvinyli](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2005.10.109)[dene difluoride.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2005.10.109) Polymer 2005, 46 (26), 12546−12555.

- (32) Walley, S. M.; Field, J. E. Strain rate sensitivity of polymers in compression from low to high rates. DYMAT J. 1994, 1, 211−227.
- (33) Richeton, J.; Ahzi, S.; Vecchio, K. S.; Jiang, F. C.; Adharapurapu, R. R. [Influence of temperature and strain rate on](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijsolstr.2005.06.040) [the mechanical behavior of three amorphous polymers: Character](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijsolstr.2005.06.040)[ization and modeling of the compressive yield stress.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijsolstr.2005.06.040) Int. J. Solids Struct. 2006, 43 (7), 2318−2335.
- (34) Pu, Y.; Rafailovich, M. H.; Sokolov, J.; Gersappe, D.; Peterson, T.; Wu, W. L.; Schwarz, S. A[. Mobility of Polymer Chains Confined at](https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.87.206101) [a Free Surface.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.87.206101) Phys. Rev. Lett. 2001, 87 (20), 206101.
- (35) Si, L.; Massa, M. V.; Dalnoki-Veress, K.; Brown, H. R.; Jones, R. A. [Chain entanglement in thin freestanding polymer films.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.94.127801) Phys. Rev. Lett. 2005, 94 (12), 127801.
- (36) Lee, B. L.; Walsh, T. F.; Won, S. T.; Patts, H. M.; Song, J. W.; Mayer, A. H. [Penetration Failure Mechanisms of Armor-Grade Fiber](https://dx.doi.org/10.1106/YRBH-JGT9-U6PT-L555) [Composites under Impact.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1106/YRBH-JGT9-U6PT-L555) J. Compos. Mater. 2001, 35 (18), 1605− 1633.
- (37) Dean, J.; Dunleavy, C. S.; Brown, P. M.; Clyne, T. W. [Energy](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijimpeng.2009.05.002) [absorption during projectile perforation of thin steel plates and the](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijimpeng.2009.05.002) [kinetic energy of ejected fragments.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijimpeng.2009.05.002) International Journal of Impact Engineering 2009, 36 (10), 1250−1258.
- (38) Yungwirth, C. J.; O'Connor, J.; Zakraysek, A.; Deshpande, V. S.; Wadley, H. N. G[. Explorations of Hybrid Sandwich Panel](https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1551-2916.2011.04501.x) [Concepts for Projectile Impact Mitigation.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1551-2916.2011.04501.x) J. Am. Ceram. Soc. 2011, 94 (s1), s62−s75.
- (39) Golsdmith, W.; Finnegan, S. A. [Penetration and perforation](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0020-7403(71)90111-1) [processes in metal targets at and above ballistic velocities.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0020-7403(71)90111-1) Int. J. Mech. Sci. 1971, 13 (10), 843−866.
- (40) Gupta, N. K.; Iqbal, M. A.; Sekhon, G. S[. Experimental and](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijimpeng.2005.06.007) [numerical studies on the behavior of thin aluminum plates subjected](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijimpeng.2005.06.007) [to impact by blunt- and hemispherical-nosed projectiles.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijimpeng.2005.06.007) International Journal of Impact Engineering 2006, 32 (12), 1921−1944.
- (41) Fujii, K.; Aoki, M.; Kiuchi, N.; Yasuda, E.; Tanabe, Y[. Impact](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0734-743X(01)00152-X) [perforation behavior of CFRPs using high-velocity steel sphere.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0734-743X(01)00152-X) International Journal of Impact Engineering 2002, 27 (5), 497−508.
- (42) Cannon, L. [Behind armour blunt trauma](https://dx.doi.org/10.1136/jramc-147-01-09)–an emerging problem. J. R. Army Med. Corps 2001, 147 (1), 87−96.
- (43) Liu, P.; Strano, M. S. [Toward Ambient Armor: Can New](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201503915) [Materials Change Longstanding Concepts of Projectile Protection?](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201503915) Adv. Funct. Mater. 2016, 26 (6), 943−954.
- (44) Richardson, J. J.; Björnmalm, M.; Caruso, F[. Technology-driven](https://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.aaa2491) [layer-by-layer assembly of nanofilms.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.aaa2491) Science 2015, 348 (6233), aaa2491.