# Deformation mechanisms in nanotwinned metal nanopillars

Dongchan Jang<sup>1</sup>†\*, Xiaoyan Li<sup>2</sup>†, Huajian Gao<sup>2</sup>\* and Julia R. Greer<sup>1,3</sup>

Nanotwinned metals are attractive in many applications because they simultaneously demonstrate high strength and high ductility, characteristics that are usually thought to be mutually exclusive. However, most nanotwinned metals are produced in polycrystalline forms and therefore contain randomly oriented twin and grain boundaries making it difficult to determine the origins of their useful mechanical properties. Here, we report the fabrication of arrays of vertically aligned copper nanopillars that contain a very high density of periodic twin boundaries and no grain boundaries or other microstructural features. We use tension experiments, transmission electron microscopy and atomistic simulations to investigate the influence of diameter, twin-boundary spacing and twin-boundary orientation on the mechanical responses of individual nanopillars. We observe a brittle-to-ductile transition in samples with orthogonally oriented twin boundaries as the twin-boundary spacing decreases below a critical value ( $\sim$ 3-4 nm for copper). We also find that nanopillars with slanted twin boundaries deform via shear offsets and significant detwinning. The ability to decouple nanotwins from other microstructural features should lead to an improved understanding of the mechanical properties of nanotwinned metals.

he design of materials with desired properties has traditionally relied on controlling the microstructural features (such as grain boundaries, precipitates, dislocation forests or solute atoms) that are responsible for such properties<sup>1,2</sup>. For example, creating microstructures that impede dislocation glide leads to a significant increase in the strength of crystalline materials, because plasticity depends on the motion of the dislocations. However, when the size of the material is reduced to micro- or submicrometre scales, this approach is no longer valid, because fundamentally different physical mechanisms begin to emerge at the nanoscale, as was frequently reported over the past five years<sup>3-5</sup>. Accordingly, size-dependent mechanical properties need to be taken into account to design reliable small-scale metallic structures. Furthermore, it is critical to develop a fundamental understanding of the effects of individual, rather than combined, nanoscale components on the overall mechanical properties and deformation behaviour.

Nanotwinned metals demonstrate the highly desirable combination of superior strength (on the order of 1 GPa) and high ductility (up to 10% strain)<sup>6–8</sup>, but the deformation mechanisms responsible for such an advantageous combination are the subject of ongoing discussions<sup>9–14</sup>. This is partly because most of the reported nanotwinned metals fabricated and tested so far are in bulk polycrystalline<sup>6–8,15</sup> or thin-film<sup>16,17</sup> forms, where the nanotwins are embedded within randomly oriented grains. The complex interactions within these systems obscure the individual role of each microstructural feature.

Here, we report a novel methodology to produce arrays of thousands of free-standing vertically aligned copper nanopillars, each containing uniformly aligned, densely spaced nanotwins with no grain boundaries or any other microstructural features. The nanotwins can be perpendicular or inclined (at 18°) to the pillar axis. We performed *in situ* scanning electron microscope (SEM) uniaxial tension tests on individual nanopillars and analysed the evolved microstructure in deformed pillars by means of transmission electron

microscopy (TEM). We investigated the effects of nanopillar diameter, twin-boundary spacing and inclination. The experimental findings were then corroborated by molecular dynamics simulations.

### Microstructures of fabricated copper nanopillars

Figure 1 presents SEM and TEM images, as well as an electron diffraction pattern, of representative electroplated nanotwinned copper nanopillars. A typical as-fabricated 50-nm-diameter sample with intentionally over-plated cap for tensile experiments is shown in Fig. 1a. Note that the pillar gauge section has virtually no taper, in contrast to what is often found when using the widely applied top-down focused ion beam (FIB)-based technique for nanopillar creation<sup>18</sup>. The inset in Fig. 1a shows a zoomed-out SEM image of the electroplated template, showing a nanopillar array at 52° tilt. Figure 1b,c shows low- and high-magnification dark-field TEM images of 160- and 110-nm-diameter nanopillars containing orthogonal twin boundaries, respectively, with the corresponding electron diffraction pattern (incident electron beam along [011] zone axis) in the inset of Fig. 1b. In Fig. 1c, the 5-nm-thick outer amorphous layer is native and is composed of copper oxide (Supplementary Discussion S1). A high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image is shown in Fig. 1d. The electron beam direction in this image is also along the [011] zone axis, which is parallel to the twin-boundary planes. The solid lines in Fig. 1d are inserted to help identify the (200), (111) and (111) planes, which belong to the same [011] zone. It can be clearly seen that these planes are mirror-symmetric across highly coherent twin boundaries, as they retain crystallographic registry across them. No initial dislocations were found after carefully analysing over 50 dark-field TEM images.

# Tension experiments and brittle-to-ductile transition

Experiments were performed on samples with four different internal/external geometries with the specific characteristic length scales as listed in Table 1. Figure 2 shows tensile engineering

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup>Division of Engineering and Applied Sciences, California Institute of Technology, 1200 E. California Blvd, MC 309-81, Pasadena, California 91125, USA, <sup>2</sup>School of Engineering, Brown University, 610 Barus and Holley, 182 Hope Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA, <sup>3</sup>The Kavli Nanoscience Institute at Caltech, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA; <sup>†</sup>These authors contributed equally to this work. \*e-mail: jangd@caltech.edu; huajian\_gao@brown.edu

Figure 1 | Characterization of fabricated nanotwinned copper pillars. a, SEM image of a typical as-fabricated nanotwinned copper nanopillar with an intentionally overplated cap for tensile testing (pillar diameter, 50 nm). Inset: Low magnification image showing the array of nanopillars. b,c, Dark-field TEM images and electron diffraction pattern (inset) of typical 160- and 110-nm-diameter pillars with orthogonal twin boundaries, respectively. Images were taken from the [011] zone axis direction at different magnifications. d, HRTEM image taken from the [011] zone axis direction, showing several twin lamellae and twin boundaries.

stress-strain curves for samples D50A0 (Fig. 2a), D50A18 (Fig. 2b), D70A0 (Fig. 2c), D100A0 (Fig. 2d) and D250A0 (Fig. 2e), with insets showing post-deformation SEM images (Fig. 2b,d,e) and dark-field (Fig. 2c) and bright-field (Fig. 2a) TEM images. The letters D and A in the specimen names indicate sample diameter and twin-boundary tilt angle with respect to the pillar axis. Intriguingly, the 100-nm-diameter pillars with orthogonal twin boundaries spaced at 4.3 nm (Fig. 2d) appear to exhibit the characteristics of brittle fracture, that is, linear elastic loading followed by sudden failure without noticeable plasticity. The tensile stresses at fracture range from 1.81 to 2.45 GPa, with an average of 2.12 GPa, a value on the order of  $\sim$ 40% of the ideal strength of copper (ref. 19) and 1.5 times higher than the ultimate tensile strength of single-crystalline copper nanopillars with similar diameters tested using an identical methodology<sup>20</sup>. The post-deformation SEM image presented in the inset of Fig. 2d reveals no evidence of necking or shape change, suggesting that the failure is of a brittle nature. This is further supported by the fracture surface being nearly perpendicular to the loading axis, rather than slanted at 45°. In contrast, the 250-nm-diameter samples with orthogonal twin boundaries spaced at 2.8 nm (Fig. 2e), the 70-nm-diameter samples with orthogonal twin boundaries spaced at 0.6 nm (Fig. 2c) and the 50-nm-diameter samples with orthogonal and slanted twin boundaries spaced at 1.2 nm (Fig. 2a,b) show enhanced plasticity. The engineering stress–strain curves in Fig. 2a–c,e show extended plastic regimes without any appreciable work-hardening. The insets in Fig. 2a–c,e show clear neck formation, further supporting the observation of localized plasticity in these nanopillars.

We find the average tensile strengths of 50-nm-diameter/1.2-nm-spaced nanopillars to be 1.35 GPa for orthogonal twin boundaries (D50A0) and 0.95 GPa for slanted (D50A18) twin boundaries. This difference ( $\sim$ 30%) in yield strength is probably a result of the distinctly different dislocation behaviours in the two samples. For D50A0, the twin boundaries do not experience any resolved shear stress, so there is no driving force for dislocation to slip along the boundaries; however, in samples with slanted twin boundaries, a

| Table 1   List of experimentally tested samples. |                                        |                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|--------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Diameter, D (nm)                                 | Twin spacing, $\lambda$ (nm)           | Twin-boundary orientation                                                                                  | Strength (GPa)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Fracture mode                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| 0                                                | 1.2                                    | Orthogonal                                                                                                 | 1.35                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Ductile                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 0                                                | 1.2                                    | Inclined by 18°                                                                                            | 0.95                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Ductile                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 0                                                | 0.6                                    | Orthogonal                                                                                                 | 2.43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Ductile                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 00                                               | 4.3                                    | Orthogonal                                                                                                 | 2.12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Brittle                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 50                                               | 2.8                                    | Orthogonal                                                                                                 | 0.71                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Ductile                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ) ( ( (                                          | Diameter, <i>D</i> (nm)  0  0  0  0  0 | Diameter, D (nm)     Twin spacing, λ (nm)       0     1.2       0     1.2       0     0.6       00     4.3 | Diameter, D (nm)         Twin spacing, λ (nm)         Twin-boundary orientation           0         1.2         Orthogonal           0         1.2         Inclined by 18°           0         0.6         Orthogonal           00         4.3         Orthogonal | Diameter, D (nm)         Twin spacing, λ (nm)         Twin-boundary orientation         Strength (GPa)           0         1.2         Orthogonal         1.35           0         1.2         Inclined by 18°         0.95           0         0.6         Orthogonal         2.43           00         4.3         Orthogonal         2.12 |

**Figure 2 | Stress-strain curves and failure behaviours of nanotwinned pillars. a-e**, Engineering stress-strain curves for samples D50A0 (**a**), D50A18 (**b**), D70A0 (**c**), D100A0 (**d**) and D250A0 (**e**), respectively (D indicates nanopillar diameter and A indicates twin boundary orientation with respect to nanopillar axis). Insets: post-deformation SEM (**b,d,e**), dark-field TEM (**c**) and bright-field TEM (**a**) images. Scale bars in insets: 50 nm (**a**), 100 nm (**b**), 10 nm (**c**), 200 nm (**d**) and 200 nm (**e**). Supplementary Movie S4 shows tension of a D250A0 sample. **f**, Comparison of the strength of nanotwinned copper nanopillars (present work, red symbols) and that of twin-free nanopillars (ref. 20, blue symbols; ref. 22, orange symbols). For all samples, the twin boundaries were oriented along the <111> direction, and the applied strain rate was ~10<sup>-3</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. Square symbols represents tensile loading; circles represent compressive loading; error bars represent the standard deviation of multiple experiments under identical testing conditions.

substantial resolved shear stress is expected to drive dislocation propagation in the twin boundary planes. As a result, samples with orthogonal twin boundaries require additional applied stress to overcome this repulsive dislocation image force. This effect of twin-boundary inclination angle is discussed in more detail in subsequent sections in conjunction with our atomistic simulation results.

It is noteworthy that the slope of 60 GPa in the elastic regime in Fig. 2 is lower by a factor of 3 than the Young's modulus of 191 GPa for copper along the [111] direction<sup>21</sup>. This discrepancy is probably due to inaccuracy in the displacement measurement, possibly originating from an experimental artefact such as a slight misalignment between the pillar and the loading axes<sup>18</sup>, bending of the tension grips, a slightly loose grip, roughness of the contacting surfaces and deflection of the substrate. The in situ nanomechanical instrument, SEMentor, used in our experiments is capable of precisely controlling the orientation of pillar and loading axes, thereby minimizing these types of errors (Supplementary Movie S4). Undulations in the data near the origins of the stress-strain curves in Fig. 2a,b arise from instrumental artefacts, occurring when tensile grips establish initial contact with the samples. This effect does not appear to be carried over into the mechanical behaviour thereafter.

A comparison of strength in nanotwinned and twin-free copper nanopillars<sup>20,22</sup> is presented in Fig. 2f. Note that for all nanopillars with equivalent diameters and orientations, the yield strengths of nanotwinned samples are always higher than those of their twin-free counterparts.

Atomistic simulations (Supplementary Discussion S2) revealed that twin planes can serve as cleavage planes during brittle fracture. However, we found that when the twin boundaries in nanotwinned copper were spaced sufficiently close to one another, the high stresses at the crack tip induced twinning dislocation nucleation and propagation on twin boundaries in the vicinity of the crack tip. This led to a cascade of subsequent dislocation activities and eventually to ductile failure via plastic deformation (Supplementary Movies S1-S3). This observation is fully corroborated by our experimental results, in which the nanopillars with twin-boundary spacing at or below 2.8 nm exhibited clear characteristics of ductile fracture, including extended plasticity and shear localization via necking. In contrast, nanopillars with a twin-boundary spacing of 4.3 nm deformed in a brittle fashion associated with the intrinsic brittleness of twin boundaries. These distinct deformation mechanisms revealed by the atomistic simulations indicate that there exists a twin-spacing-induced transition between intrinsically brittle and intrinsically ductile behaviours in nanotwinned metals, which is consistent with our experimental observations. More detailed information on this brittle/ductile fracture is provided in Supplementary Discussion S2.

We propose a theoretical model to explain the twin-spacing-induced brittle-to-ductile transition in nanotwinned metals. The homogeneous nucleation of twinning dislocations occurs when the maximum resolved shear stress on adjacent twin boundaries reaches a critical value  $\tau_{\rm crit}$ . Using the intrinsic brittleness of the twin boundary and the asymptotic solution to the Mode I crack tip stress field, we obtained the critical twin boundary spacing as

$$\lambda_{\text{crit}} = \frac{\alpha^2 \mu (2\gamma_{\text{s}} - \gamma_{\text{tb}})}{\pi \tau_{\text{crit}}^2 (1 - \nu)} \tag{1}$$

where  $\mu$  is the shear modulus,  $\nu$  is Poisson's ratio,  $\gamma_s$  is the free surface energy,  $\gamma_{tb}$  is the twin boundary energy, and  $\alpha$  is a geometric factor related to the angle of the dislocation nucleation site with respect to the crack tip (the derivation of equation (1) is reported in Supplementary Discussion S2). By inserting the material properties listed in Supplementary Table S1 into equation (1), we

calculated a critical twin-boundary spacing of  $\lambda_{\rm crit} = 2.37$  nm. When the twin-boundary spacing  $\lambda \leq \lambda_{\rm crit}$ , the twinning dislocation nucleates on the twin boundary near the crack tip, leading to a cascade of dislocation activities and, ultimately, ductile failure. However, when  $\lambda > \lambda_{\rm crit}$ , no dislocation is activated, and the crack cleaves along the twin boundary, which causes the sample to fail in a brittle manner. Our experiments imply that the critical twin-boundary spacing corresponding to the brittle-to-ductile transition is  $\sim 3-4$  nm. The prediction from equation (1) agrees well with the experimental results (for further details see Supplementary Discussion S2).

### Microstructure evolution and plasticity mechanisms

Figure 3 presents a TEM analysis of deformation-induced microstructural changes in 50-nm-diameter nanopillars (samples D50A0 and D50A18). To obtain the crystallographic information on the twinned structure, it was necessary to tilt the sample such that the direction of the [110] zone axis within the twin-boundary plane was aligned with the incident electron beam. Figure 3a,c illustrates this orientation schematically, with the circle (Fig. 3a) or ellipse (Fig. 3c) indicating twin-boundary planes, and arrows within them indicating the [110] zone axis. Interestingly, although D50A0 and D50A18 differ only in their twin-boundary inclination angles, with all other dimensions identical, they exhibit drastically different microstructural evolution. When the twin boundaries are perpendicular to the loading axis (D50A0), deformation is highly localized in the neck periphery, with all other regions remaining virtually unaffected (as shown in the outlined region of the dark-field TEM image in Fig. 3b, left). The dark-field image in the top right corner of Fig. 3b shows evidence of intense dislocation activity. Here, multiple parallel dark lines (indicated by arrows) were evidently formed across the twin lamellae, suggesting that they were traces of dislocations, which probably nucleated at the twin boundarysurface intersections and subsequently glided in several different slip planes, leading to entanglement and multiplication. Interestingly, the twin lamellae thickness in the heavily deformed region appears to remain unchanged and is comparable with that in the lower part of the pillar, where no evidence of deformation can be found. In stark contrast to this, pillars with slanted twin boundaries (D50A18) exhibited clear growth of twin lamellae thickness, also known as detwinning, after plastic deformation. Figure 3d shows that the twin lamellae thickness increased to 15 nm after deformation (left image) from a pre-deformation thickness of 1.2 nm (inset). Moreover, the surface of each twin lamella became faceted, further suggesting that each lamella underwent shear deformation and that detwinning became dominant during plastic deformation. Such detwinning arises from sequential nucleation of Shockley partial dislocations at the twin boundary-surface intersections and their subsequent relatively unimpeded slip along the twin boundaries. The atomistic simulations corroborate these observations.

To investigate the plasticity mechanisms in sub-100 nm nanotwinned copper pillars, we carried out molecular dynamics simulations of uniaxial tension on 50-nm-diameter pillars. Such large-scale simulations complement the experiments by providing and probing microscopic deformation mechanisms in nanotwinned pillars.

The atomic configurations of the deformed samples with orthogonal and slanted twin boundaries spaced at 1.05 nm are given in Fig. 4a–c and d–g, respectively. Similar deformation characteristics are also apparent in samples with twin-boundary spacings of 0.63 nm and 1.25 nm, as shown in Supplementary Figs S4 and S5, respectively. Figure 4a shows that in orthogonal twin-boundary samples, where the twin boundaries do not experience any resolved shear stress, multiple dislocations are nucleated at twin boundary-surface intersections or near the fixed ends of the cylinder, and then glide on slip planes inclined to the twin boundaries. Subsequently, these dislocations react with twin boundaries<sup>23–25</sup>,

Figure 3 | Comparison of deformation mechanisms of nanotwinned pillars with orthogonal and 188 slanted twin boundaries. a,c, Schematics describing the orientation of the [110] zone axis lying on the twin-boundary plane aligned with incident electron beams in the TEM. b, TEM dark-field images (left and top right) and electron diffraction pattern (bottom right) of a deformed D50A0 pillar, showing neck formation and evidence of inter-twin-boundary dislocation activities. d, TEM dark-field images (left and top right) and electron diffraction pattern (bottom right) of a deformed D50A18 pillar showing detwinning. Inset, left image: typical undeformed pillar (scale bar, 10 nm).

leading to the twin boundaries being decorated with multiple dislocations, some of which are mobile Shockley partials capable of slipping on twin boundaries in the presence of a resolved shear stress. We also find that dislocation–twin boundary interactions lead to neck formation and shear bands, which gradually broaden with strain, as shown in Fig. 4b,c as well as in our experiments (Figs 2a–c,e and 3b). During such shear band growth, some of the original twin boundaries are completely destroyed, as indicated by arrows in Fig. 4b. Shear bands can be identified in yet another manner (Fig. 4c). In the initial sample, we assign atoms in different twin lamellae using different colours. All twin lamellae are initially orthogonal to the loading direction. Once a shear band arises due to dislocation penetration through twin boundaries, the twin lamella is locally dislocated. In the regions bounded by black lines in Fig. 4c, twin lamellae are severely distorted along the shear direction, indicating well-developed shear bands. In addition, we note that a void (dotted circles in Fig. 4a,b) is nucleated near the right end of the cylinder due to the coalescence of excess free volume generated during local shear deformation, which does not appear to grow during plastic deformation. The shear band is a manifestation of shear strain localization, a common deformation mode in ductile materials. Such a deformation mode has been reported in experimental studies on nanotwinned copper–aluminium<sup>26</sup> and pure copper<sup>27</sup> as well as in atomistic simulations of nanotwinned copper<sup>28</sup> under uniaxial tension.

Figure 4d–g captures the atomic structures in a pillar with slanted twin boundaries (inclination angle of 188) at different strains. Massive dislocation slip on twin boundaries leads to twin boundary migration and even the disappearance of some twin lamellae, which coincides with our experimental results (Fig. 3d). Depletion of twins leads to the formation of multiple surface steps as the dislocations escape at the free surface. Subsequently, these surface steps serve as sources of new dislocations to facilitate further plastic deformation. Once the middle part of the sample becomes twin-free, dislocations glide on other, non-twin slip planes. As shown in Fig. 4e, numerous dislocations are nucleated from surface steps and travel

Figure 4 | Typical deformation characteristics of the simulated samples (diameter, 50 nm; twin-boundary spacing, 1.05 nm) with orthogonal and slanted twin boundaries. a, Atomic structures along the middle longitudinal section of the deformed sample at strain 1 ¼ 10.52%. b,c, Atomic structures along the middle longitudinal section of the deformed sample at 1 ¼ 34.98%. Note that the microstructures indicated by orange arrows in b are in well-developed shear bands where the original twin boundaries have been completely destroyed. Regions bounded by black lines in c represent shear bands where the lattice structures are severely distorted. Dotted circles in a,b indicate a void formed during local shear deformation. d,e, Sectional view at 1 ¼ 10.52% (d) and 1 ¼ 34.98% (e). The region in e bounded by the black rectangle is magnified under the main panel and shows two dislocations being nucleated from surface steps as a result of early detwinning. f,g, Dislocation structures at 1 ¼ 10.52% (f) and 1 ¼ 34.98% (g). Compared with g, the dislocation structure in f is more ordered. All scale bars, 20 nm. Atoms in a,b,d,e are rendered using the local crystal order colouring method, and atoms in f,g are rendered in positionbased colouring. In c, atoms in the same colours belong to the same twin lamellae in the undeformed configuration.

through the interior, leading to the dislocation tangle shown in Fig. 4g. In contrast with this entangled dislocation structure, Fig. 4f demonstrates more ordered dislocation lines gliding on twin boundaries during the detwinning process.

Figure 5a shows stress–strain curves from molecular dynamics simulations of uniaxial tension of nanotwinned pillars with orthogonal and slanted twin boundaries. Because all samples were initially dislocation-free, the peak stresses shown in Fig. 5a should primarily reflect the stress required for either full or partial dislocation nucleation. Once enough mobile dislocations are generated to accommodate the imposed deformation, the stress drops to a lower level, and dislocation density rises to a higher level. As deformation proceeds, new dislocations continue to nucleate and/or multiply while existing mobile dislocations tend to annihilate due to dislocation reactions or by escaping from the free surface. Dislocation density saturates as the annihilation rate is balanced by the nucleation rate. Such evolution of the dislocation density corresponds to the solid curves in Fig. 5b for the sample with orthogonal twin boundaries. For the sample with slanted twin boundaries, on the other hand, dislocation density rises only slightly after initial yielding, as dislocation slip is activated again after detwinning. Figure 5c shows a reduction in the number of hexagonal close-packed (hcp) atoms in the course of deformation, providing strong evidence for the detwinning process.

In nanotwinned metals, detwinning involves successive twinboundary migrations via partial dislocation slip along pre-existing twin boundaries. Such processes eventually lead to vanishing of twins and a reduction in the number of hcp atoms. In contrast, in the sample with orthogonal twin boundaries, the reduction in hcp atoms is mainly caused by twin boundaries being destroyed by dislocation–twin boundary interactions, which results in loss of their coherence. Here, detwinning plays only a minor role (if at all) in decreasing the number of hcp atoms.

A quantitative comparison of the present study and other molecular dynamics simulations reported in the literature25,29,30 (Supplementary Fig. S16) indicates that the strength of nanotwinned pillars depends on various internal parameters, including twinboundary spacing, the size and shape of the cross-section and twin-boundary orientation. Notably, the peak stresses in the nanopillars obtained from molecular dynamics simulations and experiments show a substantial discrepancy, which might be attributed to the eleven orders of magnitude higher strain rate used in molecular dynamics simulations as compared with the experiments. In addition, our simulations are based on idealized samples with atomically smooth surfaces, perfect grain interiors and relatively small aspect ratios. Further discussion about the discrepancy between our simulations and experiments is provided in Supplementary Discussion S3.

# Conclusions

In summary, we report the fabrication of free-standing copper nanopillars with densely spaced twin boundaries in the absence of grain boundaries and initial dislocations. The orientation of nanotwin lamellae can be controlled so that the twin boundaries are either perpendicular or angled at 188 with respect to the pillar axis. We find that all nanotwinned nanopillars with twin spacings of 2.8 nm or below exhibit non-trivial plasticity, with tensile strengths

Figure 5 | Molecular dynamics simulations of nanotwinned copper pillars under uniaxial tension. a, Stress-strain curves. b, Evolution of dislocation density with applied strain. c, Variation of the normalized number of hcp atoms with applied strain.

ranging from 0.7 to 2.4 GPa (Table 1). We have shown that the difference in strength can be attributed to their distinct deformation mechanisms: strain localization (necking and shear banding) caused by twin boundary-dislocation interactions dominates plastic deformation in orthogonal twin-boundary samples, whereas detwinning is a governing deformation mechanism in slanted twin-boundary samples. Despite these differences, deformation in both types of structures is enabled by dislocation nucleation at the twin boundary-surface intersections, with their subsequent activity dictated by the shear stress acting along the twin boundaries. Pillars with a diameter of 100 nm and orthogonal twin boundaries demonstrate a ductile-to-brittle transition as the twin boundary spacing decreases, reaching a tensile strength of 2.12 GPa. Such brittle fracture might be associated with the intrinsic brittleness of twin boundaries, as supported by atomistic simulations. The present work discerns the specific role of twin boundaries in the deformation of small-scale structures and sheds further light on the dislocation-nucleation mechanisms responsible for the high plasticity observed in nanosize structures.

### Methods

Experimental fabrication of copper nanopillars. Our fabrication methodology for creating nanotwinned copper nanopillars made use of negative pattern transfer from a template. The template was constructed from micrometre-thick electron-beam resist (polymethylmethacrylate, PMMA), spin-coated onto a silicon substrate with a thin 100 nm seed layer of evaporated gold. A pattern of circles with desired pillar diameters was written using electron-beam lithography, and the resist was subsequently developed to generate arrays of through-holes to the underlying gold film (Supplementary Fig. S1a). The composition of the electrolyte for copper electroplating was 125 g  $l^{-1}$  Cu(SO<sub>4</sub>) · 5H<sub>2</sub>O and 50 g  $l^{-1}$  of H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>. A platinumcoated niobium mesh was used as the anode, and both the template and coppercoated dummy chip as the cathode (Supplementary Fig. S1b). The purpose of the dummy chip was to precisely control the nominal current density at the cathode, defined as the total current divided by the cross-sectional area of the cathode. During electroplating, the electrolyte was mechanically stirred at 120 revolutions per minute. The waveform of the applied current was periodic and rectangular (Supplementary Fig. S1c). The current density,  $\bar{J}_{\rm peak}$ , was maintained at 0.8 A cm $^{-2}$  during the on time  $(t_{\rm on})$  and reduced to 0 A cm $^{-2}$  for the off time  $(t_{\rm off})$ . The off time was always set to 100 ms, and the length of  $t_{\rm on}$  was used to control the average thickness  $\lambda$  of the twin lamellae. The twin boundary orientation was controlled by the angle between the cathode and anode. For example, when the cathode and anode were parallel, the resultant twin-boundary orientation was orthogonal to the pillar axis, but when they were at an angle with respect to one another, the twin boundaries were slanted. In general, a larger angle between the cathode and anode produced samples with more slanted twin boundaries, although the relation does not appear to be perfectly proportional. Details of the electroplating template fabrication are available in a previous publication31.

In situ SEM mechanical testing. Uniaxial tension experiments were carried out with custom-made tensile grips in SEMentor, an in situ mechanical deformation instrument that enables the deformation process to be observed in an SEM. The nominal strain rate was  $1.0\times10^{-3}~s^{-1}$  for all samples. The particular nanopillar used to conduct TEM analysis before and after deformation was attached to the TEM lift-out grid by plucking it from the substrate and subsequently gluing its bottom to the grid using focused electron-beam tungsten deposition. During the plucking process, the nanopillar was first guided into the SEMentor tension grips, as depicted in Supplementary Fig. S2a, and detached from the substrate by gently nudging the sample stage. Once detached, the nanopillar was lifted off the substrate in the SEMentor tension grips (Supplementary Fig. S2b), then transferred to the top of a post on the TEM lift-out grid (Supplementary Fig. S2c,d). Finally, the bottom of the nanopillar was welded using electron-beam tungsten deposition in the FIB to make it suitable for the tension experiment. The pillar was mechanically tested in SEMentor and analysed by TEM directly on the TEM grid, thereby ensuring preand post-deformation TEM analysis on the same pillars under identical electronbeam conditions. The tension experiments for all other pillars were performed directly on the electroplated substrate. To enhance the adhesion of pillars to the substrate, pillars with a diameter of 100 nm were also glued to the substrate using the same type of tungsten deposition.

Molecular dynamics simulations. Large-scale atomistic simulations were performed on nanotwinned copper pillars under uniaxial tension. The simulated samples were 50 nm in diameter and 150 nm in height, with uniform twin boundary spacings of 0.63, 1.05 and 1.25 nm. These size parameters closely match those used in the experiments. Each sample contained about 25 million atoms. Similar to the experiments, two kinds of samples with different orientations were studied: one with orthogonally oriented twins, and the other with twins slanted at 18° with respect to the axial direction. At the beginning of the simulations, the samples were relaxed and equilibrated at 300 K for 300 ps using a Nosé-Hoover thermostat<sup>32</sup> and a Beredsen barostat<sup>33</sup>. Atomic configurations after equilibration are shown in Supplementary Fig. S3. The simulated samples were then stretched in the axial direction under a constant engineering strain rate of  $2 \times 10^8 \,\mathrm{s}^{-1}$ . Throughout the simulations, the temperature was kept constant by the Nosé-Hoover thermostat<sup>32</sup>. The embeddedatom method potential<sup>34</sup> was used to calculate interatomic forces. A multiple time step algorithm<sup>35</sup> was used to speed up the computation, with the short and long time steps taken as 0.001 and 0.003 ps, respectively. To identify defects during deformation of the samples, we painted atoms in different colours using a local crystal order analysis<sup>36</sup>: atoms with face-centred cubic (fcc) order were coloured in grey, atoms with hcp order in red, atoms in dislocation cores in green, atoms near vacancies in blue, and fully disordered atoms in yellow. A further colouring scheme (referred to as position-based colouring) was also used to generate threedimensional effects, with colours representing the distance from atoms to the centre of the simulated pillar.

Received 19 March 2012; accepted 7 June 2012; published online 15 July 2012

# References

1. Callister, W. Materials Science and Engineering: An Introduction 4th edn (Wiley, 1997).

- 2. Hirth, J. P. & Lothe, J. Theory of Dislocations 2nd edn (Wiley, 1982).
- 3. Greer, J. R. & De Hosson, J. T. Plasticity in small-sized metallic systems: intrinsic versus extrinsic size effect. Prog. Mater. Sci. 56, 654–724 (2011).
- 4. Zhu, T. & Li, J. Ultra-strength materials. Prog. Mater. Sci. 55, 710–757 (2010).
- 5. Uchic, M. D., Shade, P. A. & Dimiduk, D. M. Plasticity of micrometer-scale single crystals in compression. Annu. Rev. Mater. Res. 39, 361–386 (2009).
- 6. Lu, L., Chen, X., Huang, X. & Lu, K. Revealing the maximum strength in nanotwinned copper. Science 323, 607–610 (2009).
- 7. Hodge, A., Wang, Y. M. & Barbee, T. Jr Mechanical deformation of high-purity sputter-deposited nano-twinned copper. Scripta Materialia 59, 163–166 (2008).
- 8. Dao, M., Lu, L., Shen, Y. & Suresh, S. Strength, strain-rate sensitivity and ductility of copper with nanoscale twins. Acta Materialia 54, 5421–5432 (2006).
- 9. Li, X., Wei, Y., Lu, L., Lu, K. & Gao, H. Dislocation nucleation governed softening and maximum strength in nano-twinned metals. Nature 464, 877–880 (2010).
- 10. Wu, Z., Zhang, Y. & Srolovitz, D. J. Dislocation–twin interaction mechanisms for ultrahigh strength and ductility in nanotwinned metals. Acta Materialia 57, 4508–4518 (2009).
- 11. Deng, C. & Sansoz, F. Enabling ultrahigh plastic flow and work hardening in twinned gold nanowires. Nano Lett. 9, 1517–1522 (2009).
- 12. Wang, J. & Huang, H. Novel deformation mechanism of twinned nanowires. Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 203112 (2006).
- 13. Zhu, T., Li, J., Samanta, A., Kim, H. G. & Suresh, S. Interfacial plasticity governs strain rate sensitivity and ductility in nanostructured metals. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 104, 3031–3036 (2007).
- 14. Asaro, R. J. & Kulkarni, Y. Are rate sensitivity and strength effected by cross-slip in nano-twinned fcc metals. Scripta Materialia 58, 389–392 (2008).
- 15. Ma, E. et al. Strain hardening and large tensile elongation in ultrahigh-strength nano-twinned copper. Appl. Phys. Lett. 85, 4932–4934 (2004).
- 16. Anderoglu, O. et al. Epitaxial nanotwinned Cu films with high strength and high conductivity. Appl. Phys. Lett. 93, 083108 (2008).
- 17. Bufford, D., Wang, H. & Zhang, X. High strength, epitaxial nanotwinned Ag films. Acta Materialia 59, 93–101 (2011).
- 18. Zhang, H., Schuster, B. E., Wei, Q. & Ramesh, K. The design of accurate microcompression experiments. Scripta Materialia 54, 181–186 (2006).
- 19. Ogata, S., Li, J. & Yip, S. Ideal pure shear strength of aluminum and copper. Science 298, 807–811 (2002).
- 20. Jennings, A. T. & Greer, J. R. Tensile deformation of electroplated copper nanopillars. Phil. Mag. 91, 1108–1120 (2011).
- 21. Meyers, M. A. & Chawla, K. K. Mechanical Behavior of Materials 1st edn (Prentice-Hall, 1998).
- 22. Jennings, A. T., Li, J. & Greer, J. R. Emergence of strain-rate sensitivity in Cu nanopillars: transition from dislocation multiplication to dislocation nucleation. Acta Materialia 59, 5627–5637 (2011).
- 23. Wang, Y. & Sui, M. L. Atomic-scale in situ observation of lattice dislocations passing through twin boundaries. Appl. Phys. Lett. 94, 021909 (2009).
- 24. Chassagne, M., Legros, M. & Rodney, D. Atomic-scale simulation of screw dislocation/coherent twin boundary interaction in Al, Au, Cu and Ni. Acta Materialia 59, 1456–1463 (2011).

- 25. Zhang, Y. & Huang, H. Do twin boundaries always strengthen metal nanowires? Nanoscale Res. Lett. 4, 34–38 (2009).
- 26. Hong, C., Tao, N., Huang, X. & Lu, K. Nucleation and thickening of shear bands in nano-scale twin/matrix lamellae of a CuAl alloy processed by dynamic plastic deformation. Acta Materialia 58, 3103–3116 (2010).
- 27. Hodge, A., Furnish, T., Navid, A. & Barbee, T. Jr Shear band formation and ductility in nanotwinned Cu. Scripta Materialia 65, 1006–1009 (2011).
- 28. Qu, S., Zhou, H. & Huang, Z. Shear band initiation induced by slip-twin boundary interactions. Scripta Materialia 65, 715–718 (2011).
- 29. Wei, Y. Anisotropic size effect in strength in coherent nanowires with tilted twins. Phys. Rev. B 84, 014107 (2011).
- 30. Cao, A. J., Wei, Y. G. & Mao, S. X. Deformation mechanisms of face-centeredcubic metal nanowires with twin boundaries. Appl. Phys. Lett. 90, 151909 (2007).
- 31. Burek, M. J. & Greer, J. R. Fabrication and microstructure control of nanoscale mechanical testing specimens via electron beam lithography and electroplating. Nano Lett. 10, 69–76 (2010).
- 32. Nose´, S. A unified formulation of the constant temperature molecular dynamics methods. J. Chem. Phys. 81, 511–519 (1984).
- 33. Berendsen, H. J. C., Postma, J. P. M., Van Gunsteren, W. F., DiNola, A. & Haak, J. R. Molecular dynamics with coupling to an external bath. J. Chem. Phys. 81, 3684–4690 (1984).
- 34. Mishin, Y., Mehl, M., Papaconstantopoulos, D., Voter, A. & Kress, J. Structural stability and lattice defects in copper: ab initio, tight-binding, and embeddedatom calculations. Phys. Rev. B 63, 224106 (2001).
- 35. Tuckerman, M., Berne, B. J. & Martyna, G. J. Reversible multiple time scale molecular dynamics. J. Chem. Phys. 97, 1990–2001 (1992).
- 36. Van Swygenhoven, H., Farkas, D. & Caro, A. Grain-boundary structures in polycrystalline metals at the nanoscale. Phys. Rev. B 62, 831–838 (2000).

# Acknowledgements

D.J. and J.R.G. acknowledge financial support from the NSF CAREER Grant (DMR-0748267) and the Office of Naval Research (N00014-09-1-0883). X.L. and H.G. also acknowledge financial support from the NSF-sponsored MRSEC Center at Brown University (DMR-0520651) and grant no. CMMI-0758535. The authors acknowledge critical support and infrastructure provided by the Kavli Nanoscience Institute at Caltech. The simulations were performed on the NICS Kraken Cray XT5 system (MS090046).

# Author contributions

D.J. conducted experiments, including synthesis and in situ testing of samples. X.L. performed atomistic simulations. J.R.G. and H.G. conceived the research and provided guidance. All authors analysed the data, discussed the results and wrote the manuscript.

# Additional information

The authors declare no competing financial interests. Supplementary information accompanies this paper at<www.nature.com/naturenanotechnology>. Reprints and permission information is available online at [http://www.nature.com/reprints.](http://www.nature.com/reprints) Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to [D.J.](mailto:jangd@caltech.edu) and [H.G.](mailto:huajian_gao@brown.edu)