1

https://doi.org/10.1038/s44387-025-00014-w

# LifeGPT: topology-agnostic generative pretrained transformer model for cellular automata

Check for updates

Jaime A. Berkovich¹ & Markus J. Buehler² ⊠

Conway's Game of Life (Life), a famous cellular automata (CA) algorithm, exhibits complex, initial condition-sensitive dynamics. Modeling Life without knowing the system's topology presents a challenge, motivating the development of algorithms capable of generalizing across grid configurations and boundary conditions. We introduce LifeGPT, a decoder-only generative pretrained transformer (GPT) model with rotary positional embedding (RoPE) and forgetful causal masking (FCM), capable of computing a single-timestep global state transition in Life on a toroidal grid without prior knowledge of grid size or boundary conditions. LifeGPT is topology-agnostic, achieving near-perfect accuracy in capturing the deterministic rules of Life given sufficiently diverse training data. We show recursive simulation of Life is possible using LifeGPT within an autoregressive loop. LifeGPT can also be trained on grids of varying sizes while retaining near-perfect accuracy. Finally, we propose future research, like using LifeGPT-like models to infer CA rulesets from real-world data, which could advance predictive modeling.

Cellular automata (CA) have long been a subject of profound interest within the fields of computer science and mathematics, owing to their intricate and emergent behaviors. CA algorithms are uniquely characterized by their combination of computational simplicity—evolving solely by local state-transition rules—and broad dynamical behavior, encompassing static, periodic, chaotic, and complex patterns, depending on the ruleset and initial condition (IC) being used. These properties render CA algorithms particularly valuable for simulating a wide array of natural phenomena, such as the propagation of forest fires<sup>1</sup>, traffic flow dynamics<sup>2</sup>, chemical reactions<sup>3</sup>, and recrystallization<sup>4</sup>. The inherent behavioral unpredictability of CA (following human inspection of their rulesets)<sup>5</sup> has hindered advancements in these subfields, confining CA to the realm of phenomenological modeling and subsequently preventing their evolution into mature, predictive tools for systems or phenomena where we do not yet know a closed-form ruleset.

One notable CA algorithm is Conway's Game of Life (Life), as introduced by John H. Conway in 1970<sup>6</sup>. Life (also referred to as simply "the Game of Life") has since intrigued researchers from a range of disciplines, including mathematics, computer science, and materials science. This is partly due to Life's self-organizing yet often unpredictable dynamics<sup>7</sup> that emerge from a simple 2-state-8-neighbor transition scheme (Fig. 1). Despite Life's fame, complex dynamics are present in numerous CA, and have led

many researchers to support the conjecture that most CA are "computationally irreducible." This designation suggests that their evolution cannot be perfectly predicted by any process more computationally efficient than running the CA algorithms themselves<sup>5</sup>. Practically, this conjecture implies that the evolution of most CA algorithms from an arbitrary IC to an arbitrary time-step in the future cannot be described analytically. As Wolfram (2024)8 writes, "... we can't expect to systematically "jump ahead" and predict [...] the system..." Thereby, any model that tries to simulate or predict the dynamics of a computationally irreducible CA is either implementing an algorithm capable of approximating CA behavior or implementing the exact CA algorithm as a recursive operation for the number of timesteps desired. The former solution requires that the model diverge from the CA algorithm's ground truth after some number of timesteps and/or for some specific initial conditions, and the latter solution necessitates that the model be fundamentally limited by its size to a maximum number of timesteps. Another question is whether, and how, we can begin to build artificially intelligent systems that can program new versions of CA to meet certain target behaviors, and whether such a system could develop a heightened situational "awareness" to predict the evolution of an algorithm multiple timesteps into the future without explicitly computing it recursively. While this may seem impossible given the computational irreducibility conjecture,

<sup>1</sup>Laboratory for Atomistic and Molecular Mechanics (LAMM), Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA. <sup>2</sup>Laboratory for Atomistic and Molecular Mechanics (LAMM), Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Center for Computational Science and Engineering, Schwarzmann College of Computing, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA. e-mail: mbuehler@MIT.EDU

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Fig. 1** | **State transition diagram for Conway's game of life.** A state transition diagram for a single cell in Life. *N* represents the number of neighboring cells in state 1 (live cells). The two large circles represent the possible states of a cell. Arrows represent deterministic state transitions.

past research has suggested that Life exhibits self-organized criticality (SOC)<sup>7</sup> and persistent scaling behavior<sup>9</sup>. Additionally, some CA have been shown to generate fractal-like patterns<sup>10</sup>. These phenomena suggest that Life (and potentially, many other CA algorithms<sup>11</sup>) are at least statistically predictable—while perfectly accurate predictions of any CA system might be unachievable without running the exact CA algorithm, being able make global or "coarse-grained" claims about CA systems is far more reasonable. In addition, recent work<sup>12</sup> demonstrates that exposing LLMs to complex elementary CA systems (class 4<sup>5</sup>), as opposed to static (class 1), periodic (class 2), or chaotic (class 3) CA systems, leads to improved downstream performance on cognitive tasks, suggesting that a fundamental understanding of complexity is intrinsic to the common notion of "intelligence". The nexus question here is: Are there "deep trends" (which may also be conceptualized as "pockets of computational reducibility"8) that exist across, or transcend, scales in CA that might be elucidated by deep learning models? These and related questions led us to explore the use of AI algorithms in modeling CA.

With increases in computing power and the growing popularity of neural networks as tools of analysis for complex systems (for which there are few practically useful analytical models), the computational irreducibly problem has lead many down the road of using neural networks to try to "predict" the evolution of CA systems (often, Life is chosen as the example system), with varying degrees of success. The general assumption across this field of research is that neural networks can either learn the rules of a given CA algorithm exactly, or can learn to abstract the system's behavior well enough to find a more-or-less accurate prediction of some far-future state based on an IC, though some work ventures beyond this paradigm.

Previous work focuses largely on either feed-forward convolutional neural networks (CNNs)<sup>13</sup> or convolutional encoder-decoder models<sup>14</sup>. Such approaches already encode knowledge of the significance of the spatial relationships between each cell in the CA training data, namely that CA utilize state-transition rules based on the neighboring states of a given cell (also known as the Moore neighborhood<sup>15,16</sup>). This likely introduces a form of inductive bias. CNNs embed the solution in the model directly because they already understand that CA utilize a 2D grid as a logical topology, and hence, even before their weights are initialized, CNNs are more than halfway to the solution. To date, there is little research that has investigated the possibility of utilizing data topology-agnostic models for predicting the evolution of CA.

Other recent work has taken a more general approach to such problems, includes a noteworthy conceptual framework for extracting generative rules from complex dynamical systems was introduced by Zenil et al.<sup>17</sup>, based on algorithmic information theory (AIT), called algorithmic information calculus (AIC). In this work, AIC was used to reconstruct phase spaces and identify causal mechanisms of discrete systems (including CA). Their approach applied perturbation analysis to quantify the algorithmic complexity of system components, enabling reconstruction of the system's generative rules without requiring explicit kinetic equations. This method provided insights into the causal structure of systems and their reprogrammability toward desired states.

Building on this foundation, Hernández-Orozco et al. <sup>18</sup> introduced an algorithmic loss function to quantify the discrepancy between predicted and observed system behavior. By combining AIT with ML, they developed a framework for learning generative rules in non-differentiable spaces,

bridging discrete algorithmic theory and continuous optimization. This domain-agnostic approach enabled robust predictions and causal rule discovery in CA and similar systems.

The ability to parse complex patterns and predict causal relationships from high-dimensional data is, however, not limited to AIT approaches. Within recent years, generative pretrained transformer models (GPTs) have gained widespread popularity within the areas of natural language processing<sup>19</sup>, weather prediction<sup>20–22</sup>, speech processing/modeling<sup>23–22</sup> machine vision<sup>26</sup>, strategic gaming<sup>27–29</sup>, physical field modeling<sup>30</sup>, protein folding<sup>31</sup>, and finance<sup>32,33</sup>, to name a few. This remarkable capability for GPTs to generate accurate predictions, solve inverse problems, make useful decisions, and/or new and relevant content depending on the task at hand has been attributed to the underlying attention mechanism's remarkable ability to parse meaning from data through repeatedly updating token embeddings in a high-dimensional space<sup>34</sup>. Consequentially, attention allows GPTs to build sophisticated ontological understandings, which must be learned using a large amount of training data<sup>35–37</sup>, or fine-tuned (in the case of pretrained models) on a smaller set of data<sup>38</sup>. Furthermore, these understandings can be visualized in numerous ways using graphs, proving a unique level of functional transparency<sup>36,37</sup>, in contrast to previous machine learning strategies, which are more opaque, leading to the common "blackbox" comparison<sup>39</sup>.

In this paper, we present an analysis of the transformer architecture's capability to predict the outcomes of Life, played on a  $32 \times 32$  toroidal grid, with remarkable accuracy. We accomplish this using a decoder-only transformer model, equipped with causally masked multi-headed self-attention, rotary positional embedding (RoPE) with forgetful causal masking (FCM) implemented during training, trained on data representing pairs of 2D grids encoding ICs and next-game-states (NGSs); we call our model LifeGPT.

The Life algorithm is popular within circles studying Artificial Life (ALife). ALife is a highly interdisciplinary field that is focused on understanding the essential attributes of life and life-like systems through computation, hardware, and biochemical means. "Soft" ALife, which is the most relevant to our work, is a subset of ALife that is entirely simulated computationally, instead of being physically realized 10. Many CA systems (notably, Life) have been constructed for the purpose of better understanding self-assembly, self-propagating patterns, and, more generally, complexity and chaos, all phenomenological attributes intrinsic to life as it is currently understood 11-44.

Some scholars have already begun to conceptualize GPTs—more specifically, large language models (LLMs)—as having a "reciprocal relationship" with ALife research. Nisioti et al.<sup>45</sup> identify two key relationships between the two areas of research. The authors argue that LLMs may become tools for ALife research by allowing for the generation of openended environments or as operators of evolutionary computation. Inversely, they also argue, ALife principles such as collective intelligence, evolution, and organization may also be exhibited by LLM agents. The authors emphasize the potential for LLMs for control or understand ALife systems. While the scope of our paper is limited to a replication of Life's game-state transition rules using a transformer model, our work lays the groundwork for a paradigm in which GPTs are able to fine-tune CA systems' emergent qualities through alterations of ICs and rulesets, enabling a form of ALife oversight and regulation, which the authors argue is a primary ethical consideration.

In recent months, yet another reciprocal relationship between neural networks and ALife has been elucidated. Recent work by Wolfram<sup>46</sup> shows that discrete systems known as "spacetime-inhomogeneous cellular automata" (also referred to as "rule arrays") can be tuned through a discrete, Boolean-calculus-based backpropogation to create minimal models for perceptron-style neural networks. In addition, it is argued that ordinary cellular automata can, similary, discretely model recurrent neural networks. Through these examples, an argument is developed asserting that modernday machine learning techniques are effective at learning simply because they can "mine" programs from an extremely large space of complex

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Fig. 2 | LifeGPT performance benchmarks across training epochs. Multiple model performance benchmarks vs. epoch. A Training and validation losses. B Accuracy across varying sampling temperatures.

behavior, arising from computationally irreducible systems governed by relatively few/simple rules. Thus, the author argues, it is not likely that AI will intrinsically favor finding "explainable" or "understandable" models for fitting training data; rather, AI will find something that just "happen[s] to work". Furthermore, it is stated that in the context of AI development, this harnessing of computational irreducibly creates a fundamental trade-off between model interpretability/predictability and model capability. Models that are structured more obviously for human understanding will be more computationally reducible, and will therefore be forced to sample from a computational space with reduced complexity during weight-tuning. Moreover, it is suggested that models will intrinsically struggle to fit data generated by computationally irreducible programs, as finding programs that "do more or less the right thing" will not be sufficient. The work suggests that a deeper understanding of cellular automata will go hand-in-hand with the development of any kind of broadly applicable AI-science, as both necessitate the discovery and analysis of "pockets" of computationally reducible behavior inside of complex systems.

Earlier work synthesizing the domains of CA and ML has largely focused on convolutional models paired with 2D CA. This is because 2D CA "time-slices" are easily represented as images, which feed-forward CNNs are especially equipped to process. Springer and Kenyon (2021)<sup>13</sup> conducted a thorough empirical analysis on the ability of feed-forward CNNs to capture the allegedly computationally irreducible dynamics of Life. Since Life abides by rules pertaining to the states of 2D nearest-neighbors (the r = 1 Moore neighborhood), which are effectively equivalent to a convolutional operations, the authors were able to calculate a hypothetical minimal feedforward CNN (using ReLU activation) capable of capturing the rules of the Life and applying them over *n* time-steps. They were thereby able to define a metric for network over-completeness, m, to empirically test the relationship between CNN size and Life learning effectiveness for various *n* and *m*. One finding was that for  $n \ge 3$ , increasing m up to 25 was insufficient for reaching a training convergence fraction of over 50%. Furthermore, the authors found that for networks which did converge, the number of epochs necessary increased substantially with n. The authors also note that converged, minimal networks were highly sensitive to sign-flipping of initial weights, suggesting that for smaller networks, more luck in initializing suitable weights is needed to converge. The authors further reported that gradient descend was highly sensitive to the distribution parameters of the dataset, suggesting that some game examples were more useful that others for teaching the rules of Life to the model.

Wulff and Hertz (1992) demonstrated the use of simple neural networks with short range connections ( $\Sigma - \Pi$  networks) to learn the dynamics of 2D CA<sup>47</sup>. They concluded that even with a network sharing the same topology as the CA being studied, the dynamics of Life could not be learned effectively without weight-sharing between neurons. Their early approach was similar to many modern-day graph neural network architectures. Still, their approach encoded part of the solution to the problem in the architecture of the model, and in doing so introduced an inductive bias likely aided the learning process. By enabling weight-sharing and employing

short-range connections, the architecture of the network was itself a reflection of the grid topology and nearest-neighbor rules engendering Life.

Recent work has shown that CA systems can be trained to dynamically sustain desired patterns (such as small 2D images) by allowing a single CNN to simultaneously control the state-transition rules of all cells in the system, which is likewise made possible by allowing cells to take on continuous states (as opposed to discrete states). By training the neural network (through repeated runs of the CA growth process, followed by subsequent loss calculation by comparison with the desired image and backpropagation), the model's parameters are tuned so that a single cell can, over time, multiply into a cellular collective that "grows" into the desired image. This strategy is known as neural cellular automata (NCA)<sup>48</sup>.

The outline of the paper is as follows. First, we introduce the LifeGPT architecture, evaluate its training and inference abilities, and draw conclusions about its overall learning capabilities. We then introduce the autoregressive loop, a framework that enables LifeGPT to recursively simulate Life's dynamics over multiple time steps and evaluate its performance in this context. Additionally, we assess LifeGPT's ability to generalize across grids of varying sizes by employing a different training approach. Finally, we discuss future directions, including the integration of reinforcement learning (RL) techniques and internal representations such as world models, to improve inference accuracy, broaden applicability to diverse CA rulesets, and enhance its role as a tool for studying and simulating complex dynamical systems.

## Results

# Model convergence during training

Details on the implementation of the model, training, and datasets used are provided in Materials and Methods (Materials and methods). LifeGPT is architected as a decoder-only transformer model with causally-masked self attention—in addition to FCM during training—which utilized 12 transformer layers and 8 attention heads to capture complex patterns in Life. The model's maximum sequence length was configured to accommodate a data corresponding to ICs and NGSs. Rotary positional embedding (RoPE) was used to maintain spatial awareness, while the Adam optimizer and crossentropy loss (CEL) function guided the training process (see "Model architecture and hardware information" for a full list of hyperparameters). The best-performing version of LifeGPT was trained on training data with broad-entropy ICs, though using high-entropy ICs was also tested (see "Training set generation" and "Training data ordering effects").

Our final model displayed rapid convergence to a range of crossentropy loss (CEL) values from ~0.4 to 0.2 (Fig. 2A). We suspect the reason the loss stays far greater than 0 is that there is no causal relationship between earlier tokens and later tokens in ICs within the training data, since ICs were generated stochastically (see "Training set generation"). Since FCM was the only masking strategy used (see section 4.4 for details on implementation and Supplementary section 4.4 for brief discussion of this strategy), the training and validation losses reflected the inability of our model to predict ICs, even if the model did quickly learn to predict NGSs from ICs (Fig. 2B).

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Fig. 3 | Initial conditions featured in the testing set. ICs in the testing set. Top row: ICs with increasing η from left to right. Bottom row: ICs corresponding to known periodic and complex patterns in Life.

Fig. 4 | The effect of training data entropy on LifeGPT's output accuracy. Model output accuracy, A, versus expected order parameters of inputted ICs, 〈η〉IC, for identical LifeGPT models trained for 50 epochs on two different training sets. Both models were set to a sampling temperature of 1 for this experiment.ALifeGPT trained on a dataset with high-entropy ICs (〈η〉 = 0.5). Note that this model was trained without FCM. B LifeGPT trained (with FCM) on a dataset with broad-entropy ICs (〈η〉 ∈ [0, 1]).

## Accuracy benchmarking and sampling temperature effects

CEL minimization was used during model training, but performance was assessed with periodic benchmarking. Specifically, the model was periodically tasked with autoregressively generating the tokens following 10 prompts, each containing an IC from the testing set (see "Testing set generation" and Fig. 3). This testing set was chosen to contain 5 stochastically generated ICs with varying order parameters (that were ensured to not have appeared in the testing set) and 5 hand-selected iconic patterns in Life ("Glider," "Cloverleaf," "Hammerhead Spaceship," "Blinkers," and "r-Pentomino"). The latter 5 samples were chosen due to their high heterogeneity, having very different order parameters at different parts of the grid, unlike our training set, in which each sample was very homogeneous/ noisy (see "Training set generation"). Consequently, we suspected that the iconic Life patterns would be particularly challenging for the model to learn. The number of tokens correctly predicted by the model, across 10 ICs in the testing set, was used to determine an accuracy score (see "Accuracy benchmarking" and eq. [\(3\)](#page-9-0)).

We observed that sampling temperature does have a substantial impact on accuracy (Fig. [2B](#page-2-0)). Even though the model was trained on deterministic data, it was prone to some minor errors, especially as sampling temperature is increased. Nevertheless, even with errors, models across all sampling temperatures tested (0.0, 0.25, 0.50, 0.75, 1.0) still achieved at least 99.9% accuracy after about 20 epochs. Moreover, the variability in accuracy across sampling temperatures was observed to decrease as the number of epochs of training was increased, suggesting that training for more epochs could have further mitigated errors. For this task, a sampling temperature of 0.0 showed the best empirically-measured accuracy scores across nearly all epochs. After epoch 16, the model rarely failed to achieve 100% accuracy, although there were couple exceptions where the model missed one or two tokens. Indeed, evenfor the same model trainedfor 50 epochs, there was one sample in the testing set, "r-pentomino" (see [r-Pentomino Animation at Sampling](https://github.com/lamm-mit/LifeGPT/blob/main/Testing_Set_ARAR_Animations_and_Figures/Animations/Timesteps_10/Epoch%2050/Temperature%200/evolution_temp_0_sample_10.gif) [Temperature 0](https://github.com/lamm-mit/LifeGPT/blob/main/Testing_Set_ARAR_Animations_and_Figures/Animations/Timesteps_10/Epoch%2050/Temperature%200/evolution_temp_0_sample_10.gif) – 10 Timesteps), for which LifeGPT's recursive NGS predictions failed to agree with the ground truth, due to a single incorrectly predicted cell early on.

# Training data ordering effects

Similar to earlier work using CNNs[13,](#page-10-0) we find that the ordering of the samples found in training data (see "Training set generation") has a substantial effect on model accuracy (Fig. 4). However, while earlier work used convergence (defined as achieving a critically low CEL) as a performance metric, we used accuracy (see "Accuracy benchmarking and sampling temperature effects" and "Accuracy benchmarking," and eq. [\(3](#page-9-0))).

To characterize the effects of training set ordering and further evaluate model performance, we evaluated the accuracy of the model on a testing set comprised of 110 samples with stochastically generated ICs (see "Training set entropy effects experimental procedure"). For the version of LifeGPT trained on high-entropy IC data, accuracy was reasonably high (A > 99.5%), but imperfect for samples where 〈η〉IC ∈ ~ [0.4, 1]. In contrast, for samples where 〈η〉IC ∈ ~ [0.1, 0.3], the model performed poorly, even dipping into theA < 80% range. Intriguingly, the model regained some of its Accuracyfor 〈η〉IC ∈ ~ [0, 0.1) (Fig. 4A). These results suggest that the model learned some general trends related to large regions of 0-state (dead) cells resulting in more 0-state cells in the NGS, even if it did not learn how to handle ICs with mostly 0s but still a considerable fraction of 1s.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Fig. 5 | Ordering of the initial conditions in the training sets. Frequency of an IC in the training set vs. measured IC order parameter ( $\eta$ ). **A** Highentropy data generated with  $\langle \eta \rangle = 0.5$ . **B** Broadentropy data generated with  $\langle \eta \rangle$  ranging from 0 to 1.

For the version of LifeGPT trained on broad-entropy samples, perfect accuracy was observed for 109 out of 110 ICs in the 110-sample testing set, regardless of  $\langle \eta \rangle_{\rm IC}$  (Fig. 4B). There was a single outlier for  $\langle \eta \rangle_{\rm IC} \approx 0.954$ , which we attribute to model sampling temperature effects, since this experiment was conducted with sampling temperature = 1. Based on these results, we argue that LifeGPT was capable of effectively learning the rules for Life—this is further supported by our experiments on our custom testing set (see "Accuracy benchmarking and sampling temperature effects" and Fig. 2B).

While the difference in the performance of both models is stark, these findings allow us to draw two significant conclusions. The first is that the fundamental state-transition asymmetry in Life (state-0 and state-1 cells do not follow reciprocal rulesets) impacted the learning process. It appeared that it was "easier" for the model to learn how to predict NGS when many 1-state cells were in the IC, suggesting that the "overcrowding" and "stay living" rules (see the lower-central and rightmost arrows in Fig. 1) was more learnable than the "birth" rule (see the upper-central arrow in Fig. 1). The return to reasonably high accuracy for  $\langle \eta \rangle_{\rm IC} \in \sim [0, 0.1)$  suggests that the "stay dead" rule (see the leftmost arrow in Fig. 1) was also reasonably learnable. One possible reason for the model's inability to extrapolate the birth rule could be that this rule has the most specific conditions for being enacted, requiring a 0-state cell to have exactly 3 1-state neighbors—for a high-entropy training set, the model is simply going to encounter instances of the other 3 rules more frequently. As shown in Fig. 5A, there was still some variation in the measured order parameters of samples in the training set (the distribution was binomial because the data generation process was stochastic in the same way as flipping a fair coin—see "Training set generation"). Still, this variation was clearly not enough to provide the diversity in IC ordering necessary to enable LifeGPT to capture all of the rules of Life accurately. This version of LifeGPT may have exploited a "pocket of computational reducibility"8,49 within the rules of Life, allowing it to accurately predict certain initial conditions (ICs) within specific order parameter ranges. However, this focus on easier-to-learn patterns came at the expense of generalization to ICs outside these ranges, particularly those with less common configurations or lower entropies. In other words, LifeGPT may have preferentially learned features that were more prevalent or easier to extract in ICs where more 1-state cells were present, while struggling to capture the dynamics of ICs high in 0-state cells, where the rules governing state transitions were less frequent or more specific. This imbalance highlights how the model's reliance on computationally reducible pockets within the training data limited its ability to fully generalize across the broader complexity of Life's rules.

The second conclusion is that this state-transition asymmetry problem can be effectively remedied by increasing the breadth of  $\langle \eta \rangle$  for samples in training data. The broad-entropy set, containing a relatively flat distribution of IC ordering (Fig. 5B), was capable of providing the sample diversity necessary for the model to learn Life's rules with near-perfect accuracy.

# Learning abilities

Effective learning is demonstrated when models perform well on tasks that either do not appear or rarely appear in training data. We show that our training data, containing 10,000 stochastically generated ICs (see "Testing set generation"), represents only a small fraction of all possible ICs. It is extremely improbable for one or more of the ICs in our testing set (excluding the two samples generated with  $p_x = 0$  and  $p_x = 1$ , respectively) to exactly match one or more ICs in our training set. Given that the total number of possible initial conditions is  $N_{\rm Total} = 2^{1024} \approx 1.80 \times 10^{308}$ , the probability of randomly testing the model on a training sample is  $\frac{10,000}{21024} \approx 5.56 \times 10^{-305}$ . We also empirically confirmed that there were no matches between the 8 testing sample ICs (again, excluding  $p_x = 0$  and  $p_x = 1$ ) and the 10,000 sample training set we used, using a simple search algorithm.

Based on our performance characterization (Figs. 2 and 4B), LifeGPT displays impressive learning capabilities. LifeGPT is able to closely approximate the rules of Life on a 32 × 32 toroidal grid, achieving near-perfect single-step accuracy on our tested configurations, despite learning on less than one part in one cubic-googol (i.e., <10<sup>-300</sup>) of all possible starting configurations. Still, extremely rare instances of incorrect token outputs are observed, even with a sampling temperature of 0. This is observed experimentally when feeding the output of LifeGPT back into its input, creating two layers of autoregression (we called this method the autoregressive loop—see "Autoregressive loop implementation"), which recursively implement the rules of Life. Specifically, an error in a the output of a single cell will cause a perturbation to the Life system, that, over several additional iterations, is highly likely to drastically affect the entire game state with respect to the ground truth. This occurred when inputting the "Order\_param: 0.25" ( $\langle \eta \rangle_{IC} = 0.25$ ), "glider," and "r-Pentomino" ICs from the testing into the autoregressive loop method (see  $\langle \eta \rangle_{IC} = 0.25$  Animation at Sampling Temperature 0-250 Timesteps, Glider Animation at Sampling Temperature 0-250 Timesteps, and r-Pentomino Animation at Sampling Temperature 0–250 Timesteps, respectively). For the  $\langle \eta \rangle_{IC} = 0.25$  and "r-Pentomino" ICs, only a single cell was incorrectly predicted during the generation step, which caused divergence from ground truth, while for the "glider" IC, divergence was observed due to an iteration which incorrectly predicted 2 cells (Fig. 6).

These were the only instances of inaccurate predictions made by LifeGPT (the best-performing version trained for 50 epochs on the broadentropy training set) with the sampling temperature set to 0 that we encountered during all of our testing (Fig. 7). Still, the fact that the error rate never increased over 250 game states for most ICs, and that when it did increase, it only did so because of 1 or 2 incorrect token predictions, further indicates that LifeGPT has generalized to learn the rules of Life with near-perfect accuracy.

Supplementary Figs. S1, S2, S3, S4, S5, S6, S7, S8, S9, and S10 show several iterations of the autoregressive loop method using LifeGPT to predict NGSs, with respect to ground truth (GT) Life iterations, starting from the same ICs in the testing set. LifeGPT's error with respect to GT is also depicted as a binary grid for each game state shown. Supplementary Fig. S10

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Fig. 6 | Error plots for three autoregressive loop mispredictions. Error rate vs. game state for 3 samples in the testing set for which an autoregressive loop was run and compared against the GT Life algorithm. Red "X"s mark the 1st game states where the error rate became greater than 0.

Fig. 7 | Autoregressive loop accuracy across the testing set. A bar chart showing the fraction of cells that were incorrectly predicted by LifeGPT (using an autoregressive loop) with respect to GT, for varying future game states (where the IC is the 1st game state), for varying samples in the testing set. All but 3 samples show no error rate above 0 for all game states.

clearly shows that, for the 5th game state (where the IC for"r-Pentomino"is the 1st game state), LifeGPT predicts a single incorrect token. This initial error was shown to create a feedback loop of growing divergence between LifeGPT's prediction and the GT Life evolution.

Importantly, this suggests that LifeGPT does not exactly replicate the Life algorithm, but instead approximates it in an extremely effective, while occasionally fallible, manner. Notably, the patterns for which LifeGPT exhibited this failure tended to be ones where most of the grid was full of 0-state cells, aside from small clusters of 1-state cells near the edges of the grid (see Supplementary Figs. S2, S6, and S10), suggesting that the heterogeneity of training data samples also affects converged accuracy, and possibly that the model struggled to understand the toroidal grid topology (periodic grid boundary conditions) for ηIC ≳ 0. It is possible that increasing heterogeneity of the entropies of the ICs— including ICs where different subsections of each grid exhibited vastly different ordering—in the training data might have a positive effect for these "edge-cases." Alternatively, it is possible that the LifeGPT would not have made this error had it been trained for substantially more than 50 epochs, although this is unlikely considering CEL showed few indications of an overall downward trend by epoch 50 (Fig. [2](#page-2-0)A).

# Learning life on differently sized grids

To determine if LifeGPT trained on broad-entropy ICs could learn the rules of Life on differently sized grids simultaneously, we created a new training set, with 2500 samples per grid width (WG: a quantity representing the number of cells on each edge of a square grid with periodic boundary conditions), for WG ∈ {2, 4, 8, 16}, for a total of 10,000 samples. We trained this version of LifeGPT (LifeGPT-MultiGrid) with the same hyperparameters as previously mentioned (see "Model architecture and hardware information") for 50 epochs. We then tested LifeGPT-MultiGrid (sampling temperature set to 0) on a training set comprised of 100 total samples, each with stochastically generated ICs – 25 samples for each WG.

As shown in Fig. [8](#page-6-0), LifeGPT-MultiGrid was still able to exhibit nearperfect accuracy for all WGs. For the 16 × 16 grid, LifeGPT-MultiGrid did miss some tokens, though its average accuracy was still > 99.94%. For all other WGs, LifeGPT-MultiGrid inferred NGSs perfectly for all tested ICs. These results suggest that LifeGPT is capable of managing multiple internal representations of grid topology simultaneously. The results confirm that LifeGPT can learn the same rules across multiple scales, thereby demonstrating that the model has indeed grasped the local transition logic of Life in a topology-agnostic way. However, we cannot conclusively determine its ability to generalize to unseen grid sizes. Future work should explore finetuning pretrained LLMs for this type of task, as such models might leverage related tasks to improve generalization. Additionally, few-shot learning within a smaller-sized GPT framework could be investigated, though its effectiveness might be constrained by context length.

# Discussion

While we refer to LifeGPT as being "topology-agnostic," our training and testing data only encompass 2 × 2, 4 × 4, 8 × 8, 16 × 16, and 32 × 32 toroidal

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Fig. 8 | LifeGPT-MultiGrid's accuracy across varying grid sizes. Inference accuracy of the LifeGPT-MultiGrid model after 50 epochs of training, averaged over all test samples within each WG (grid width) category. This comparison highlights the model's ability to generalize across different spatial resolutions. Higher accuracy at specific WG values suggests better performance of LifeGPT-MultiGrid for random ICs of the corresponding size. These results provide insights into the impact of grid width on model performance and its implications for model generalization.

grids. While our data indicate a high likelihood that LifeGPT's architecture is indeed topology-agnostic (able to learn Life on a variety of grid sizes and boundary conditions), future work is also needed to validate the performance of this type of model on much larger, differently shaped, or higherdimensional topologies. Additionally, our tests focused solely on the rules of the 2D binary CA system of Life; other CA may be easier or harder to learn depending on the rules. We cannot guarantee that the LifeGPT architecture will perform similarly for learning single-timestep global state transitions across all 2D CA.

LifeGPT's ever-increasing likelihood of generating incorrect tokens with increasing sampling temperature suggests a fundamental trade-off between model creativity and accuracy in making deterministic predictions. Our results suggest that LifeGPT approximates the rules but fails in certain cases, potentially because of limitations in modeling such systems due to training data, algorithms, or other aspects of how GPT models are built and trained. Nevertheless, a future version of LifeGPT could be used to simulate CA systems that do not require 100% accurate predictions, or for which "perfect" predictions are impossible, such as in the case of stochastic CA, or modeling real-world mechanisms such as the growth or dynamics of living cells, among others. Another possible avenue of exploration would be to use GPT models to predict coarse-grained CA evolution, as previous work has shown that even highly complex CA often have simpler coarse-grained representations using a renormalization group approac[h50](#page-11-0).

Future work should also investigate the possibility of LifeGPT-like models, trained on a massive space of CA rulesets (akin to a tiny piece of the "ruliad" [51\)](#page-11-0), for solving a multitude of inverse problems. Instead of predicting the time-evolution of CA systems, they could assign a representative CA ruleset to real-world data representing a system's spatiotemporal evolution. A rules-based representation might advance phenomenological understandings of dynamical systems, as different coarse-grained rules could be uncovered for different length-scales, and would enable generative exploration of the system's configuration space via IC-variation and subsequent recursive rule application. For instance, this strategy could be applied to better understand the growth-dynamics of plants and fungi, since CA have already been tried as models for many such systems[52](#page-11-0)–[56](#page-11-0), and the growth of such organisms is largely governed by the emergent effects of cellular interaction[s57](#page-11-0)–[60.](#page-11-0)

Moreover, considering that LifeGPT does, occasionally, predict incorrect tokens, a deeper investigation of other GPT training methods is necessary in future studies. In recent years, researchers have investigated the potential of transformer models—particularly LLMs—to excel at strategic game-pla[y28.](#page-10-0) Methods that incorporate reinforcement learning (RL), involving the LLM making decisions within and getting feedback from a simulated game environment, have been shown to be particularly successful. For these types of applications, LLMs act as agents that can make a series of decisions, often producing more than one output at a time, conveying several viable options. An RL algorithm works in tandem with the LLM to choose the best decisionsfrom generated options. By playing a given strategy game repeatedly against other AI agents, where each decision leads to a generated reward, enabling RL training, the agents will learn over time to take optimal decisions. This strategy usually requires a pretrained LLM chatbot and does not necessarily involve any LLM fine-tuning steps. Xu et al.[27](#page-10-0) found that the addition of an RL algorithm, as opposed to only using an LLM, helps the model overcome intrinsic biases found in LLMs such as ChatGPT. For a so-called "solved game," this strategy can ensure that the model's actions more closely align with the corresponding Nash equilibrium. When learning Life, the situation is slightly different, as Life is a "0-player game," meaning it behaves more like a simulation, where a user simply inputs some IC and lets the program run its course. Therefore, a language-agent-plus-RL approach for predicting Life dynamics would rely on creating a "meta-game" in which the Nash equilibrium results in the replication of Life's rules. We believe such a strategy is worth exploring in future work, as it may serve to mitigate errors.

Goingfurther, Liu et al. reconceptualizes the LLM learning processes in the context of agent learning in two-player language games[29.](#page-10-0) They go on to use their new framework to argue that hallucinations in current, state-ofthe-art LLMs are due to a lack of a "world model" [61](#page-11-0). In the context of LifeGPT, one type of world model could be data representing Life's rules. Future LifeGPT-like models could therefore benefit from being tasked with, in addition to predicting NGSs, predicting state-transition rulesets. Hypothetically, if the training data were then to be structured to incorporate many examples of CA ICs and NGSs, along with corresponding rulesets, the model could learn to interpret the ruleset as a world model, allowing it to "check" its NGS outputs to mitigate errors. Such an approach would be uniquely interesting for the aforementioned task of assigning rulesets to real-world biological systems, as the world model could triply serve as an error-mitigating component of the main GPT model, a model interpretability tool, and a predictive modeling tool.

LifeGPT's ability to approximate the rules of Conway's Game of Life with high accuracy, combined with its autoregressive capabilities, also raises important questions about the broader implications of transformer-based models for CA and computation. Life has been shown to be Turing complete, via the implementation of a Universal Turing Machine (UTM[\)62,](#page-11-0) but transformers have been shown to be Turing complete only under unrealistic conditions, such as having arbitrary precision for storing and manipulating positional encoding[s63.](#page-11-0) Does this mean that a future "perfect" LifeGPT-based model could simulate a Turing-complete CA system using an autoregressive loop, or rather, that the Turing-incompleteness of the transformer architecture places a fundamental limit on the accuracy of such CA simulations? LifeGPT's performance invites further exploration into how these models might generalize to other cellular automata or handle more complex systems, offering a foundation for investigating computational limits in GTPs.

Overall, we have demonstrated the functionality of LifeGPT, a decoder-only GPT model trained on NGS transition examples from Conway's Game of Life. By allowing LifeGPT to learn the dynamics of Life, we demonstrated, to the best of our knowledge, the first ever transformer model that has been trained to predict NGS transitions in a 2D CA system.

This may open up a newfrontierfor applying large-scale neural models to analyze discrete dynamical systems, investigate fundamental computational limits, and develop inverse-design strategies for rule-based generative processes in the life and physical sciences.

Key contributions of this work are:

• Topology-agnostic transformer architecture: We demonstrate that a decoder-only GPT model, with minimal adaptation, can accurately learn the Game of Life's local update rules without explicit encoding of the two-dimensional grid topology or imposing periodic boundary conditions. This highlights the model's inherent ability to parse local-neighborhood dynamics solely from the data.

- Broad-entropy dataset strategy: By constructing training samples with a
  wide range of order parameters (from fully alive to fully dead), we show
  that the model overcomes "state-transition asymmetry," enabling
  nearly perfect next-state predictions. This approach underscores the\nimportance of training set diversity in capturing rule-based
  phenomena.
- Unified framework for multiple grid sizes: We showed that LifeGPT can
  learn Life's rules simultaneously on multiple grid dimensions (e.g.,
  2 × 2, 4 × 4, 8 × 8, and 16 × 16), illustrating the potential of
  transformer-based models to internalize different topological constraints under one set of learned parameters.
- Recursive simulation: We introduce an autoregressive loop, conceptually applying the model's own outputs as next inputs—demonstrating multi-step simulation of Conway's Game of Life. Despite the classical autoregressive nature of this procedure, our explicit framing shows how transformers can handle iterative two-dimensional updates at the grid level beyond token-level recurrences.
- Near-perfect generalization in a vast configuration space: The model achieves near-zero single-timestep global state transition inference error on most test configurations (Figs. 2, 3, 4, 6, 7), despite training on only 10,000 examples from an astronomical search space of 2<sup>1024</sup>. This underscores the capacity of moderately sized GPT architectures to capture deterministic cellular automaton rules with high fidelity, even when exposed to a minuscule fraction of possible game states. However, multi-step simulations can deviate from ground truth if an early timestep prediction is incorrect, a limitation illustrated by the "glider" and "r-pentomino" tests.
- Insights on computational (Ir)reducibility: Our findings speak to the
  broader question of whether neural networks can circumvent the
  alleged computational irreducibility of Life. While we do not claim
  to provide an analytic shortcut, the model's localized rule-learning
  capability suggests transformer attention might uncover limited
  "pockets of reducibility" in practice, applying to some but not
  all ICs.
- Pathway to inverse design and rule extraction: We discuss how the approach can be extended to infer or design unknown CA rules, bridging discrete dynamical systems and generative AI. Future models might incorporate internal "world models" of CA rule sets, explicit reasoning steps<sup>64</sup>, and other mechanisms, enabling advanced applications in biological pattern formation, material growth processes, and other systems where local interactions scale to global complexity.

LifeGPT represents a step forward in the synthesis of machine learning with ALife, and in the understanding of highly complex systems with emergent properties. The demonstrated capability of LifeGPT (which is orders of magnitude smaller than state-of-the-art GPT models) to learn the state-transition rules governing Life with near-perfect accuracy opens up new opportunities for both understanding and modeling highly systems highly sensitive to initial conditions.

Future work could also focus on mitigating the effects of occasional errors. The intrinsic stochasticity of the transformer architecture leaves the door open for building better understandings of probabilistic systems, and of coarse-grained approximations of the real world. LifeGPT's topology-agnostic framework and ability to learn across multiple grid sizes, unlike previous strategies for learning Life and other CA, demonstrate potential for broad applications to nonlinear dynamical systems, independent of spatiotemporal dependencies.

# Materials and methods

Codes, data, and additional animations/figures are available at https://github.com/lamm-mit/LifeGPT.

Table 1 | LifeGPT's best-performing hyperparameters

| Hyperparameter                                  | Value                    |
|-------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|
| num_tokens                                      | 256                      |
| max_seq_len                                     | 2071                     |
| $\dim (d_{\text{mode}} = d_{\text{embedding}})$ | 256                      |
| depth (N <sub>layers</sub> )                    | 12                       |
| heads (h)                                       | 8                        |
| attn_dim_head (d <sub>k</sub> )                 | 64                       |
| RPE                                             | True                     |
| Flash attention                                 | True                     |
| Optimizer                                       | Adam                     |
| Learning rate                                   | 1e-4                     |
| mask_prob                                       | 0.15                     |
| Loss function                                   | Cross entropy loss (CLE) |
| Gradient accumulation period                    | 5                        |
| Training data IC ordering                       | broad-entropy            |

The table provides a list of hyperparameters that were found experimentally to correspond with the most accurate version of LifeGPT.

## Model architecture and hardware information

LifeGPT was constructed in Python using the "x-transformers" library<sup>65</sup>. The models in this study were trained with a workstation equipped with a high-end CUDA-compatible GPU (RTX A4000, NVidia, Santa Clara, CA, USA) for a total of 50 epochs on a 10,000-sample training set.

# Hyperparameters

Hyperparameters were initially selected heuristically for optimal performance, as the GPU primarily used for training (RTX A4000, NVidia, Santa Clara, CA, USA) had 16 GB of VRAM. Unless otherwise stated, all instances of LifeGPT used the following set of hyperparameters during training, as described in Table 1. The batch size was initially set to 20 samples and was decreased to 5 samples for later versions of LifeGPT due to memory limitations encountered when using FCM (see "Forgetful causal masking (FCM) implementation").

# **Datasets**

**Data generation overview.** To generate training sets, validation sets, and testing sets, the same basic strategy was used. First, IC game-states were generated stochastically as a 2D,  $32 \times 32$  numpy arrays. Depending on the exact algorithm used, the generated IC game-states would collectively form either high-entropy or broad-entropy datasets. Next, a custom Life Python class was used to generate the corresponding NGS for every previously generated IC. Lastly, each IC and corresponding NGS were concatenated within a string. Every generated pair was subsequently stored within a dataframe from future retrieval.

**Data topology**. Transformer models are architected to process data as 1D arrays. Therefore, to teach LifeGPT the rules of a 2D CA algorithm, such as Life, the 2D data from each time slice of the game had to be flattened into a 1D array. In this way, LifeGPT functioned similar to a vision transformer, in which 2D data is flattened into a 1D array within which each entry is a tokenizable image patch<sup>26</sup>. However, due to the low resolution of the  $32 \times 32$  toroidal grid on which Life was simulated to generate our training, we were able to encode every pixel of each time-slice of the game in a 1D array (as opposed to grouping pixels into patches).

**Instruction Tuning.** In order to encode the time-progression of the game into the training set, the initial-state and next-state 1D arrays were placed within a prompt string, which was subsequently tokenized to form a

vector. Specifically, both 1D arrays were converted to strings and placed within a larger string containing start and end tokens (@ and \$, respectively), a task statement, and bracket delimitors (e.g., "@PredictNextState<INITIAL\_CONDITION> [NEXT\_STATE] \$").

Tokenization. We employed a byte-level tokenizer that operates on UTF-8 encoded text. UTF-8 is a variable-width character encoding capable of representing every character in the Unicode standard, which allows the tokenizer to process a wide range of scripts, symbols, and special characters uniformly. By converting the text into its byte-level representation, our approach ensures consistent tokenization across different languages and handles out-of-vocabulary words and non-standard text, such as emojis or code, effectively. This method allows for robust and flexible processing of diverse textual data. Tokenization resulted in a vector suitable as input to the embedding layer of the transformer model.

#### Training set generation

High-entropy IC set generation. High entropy IC game-states were generated by effectively flipping a coin 1024 times to designate the states (0 or 1) on a 32 × 32 grid. When considering the configuration space of a binary 2D array  $M \in \{0, 1\}^{32\times32}$ , the following formula may be used to describe its Shannon entropy<sup>66</sup> (informational entropy):

$$H(M) = -\sum_{x \in \{0,1\}} p_x \log_2 p_x \tag{1}$$

(This is also known as the binary entropy function<sup>67</sup>) where,  $p_x$  is the probability of finding the value x in the 32 × 32 array M.  $p_x$  is defined as:

$$p_x = \frac{1}{32^2} \sum_{i=1}^{32} \sum_{i=1}^{32} \delta_{M_{ij},x}$$
 (2)

where,  $M_{ij}$  is an element of M in the ith row and jth column, and  $\delta_{M_{ij},x}$  is the Kronecker delta function, which is equal to 1 if  $M_{ij} = x$  and 0 otherwise.

Thus, for a "50–50 coin toss" scenario  $(p_0 = p_1 = \frac{1}{2})$ , H(M) is at a maximum and is equal to 1 Sh. Moreover, since binary data necessitates the condition  $p_0 + p_1 = 1$ , only one probability value is needed to fully describe the entropy of a given array A. We therefore denote the ordering of a given IC by referring to a single order parameter,  $\eta$ , where  $\eta = p_1$  is always true. When considering the order parameter of a set of ICs, it is important to note that, because IC generation is always a stochastic process, the exact  $\eta$  of any given IC in the set cannot be predicted with certainty. For this reason, we characterize IC sets with the symbol  $\langle \eta \rangle$ , denoting the expected order parameter.

To generate high-entropy ICs, a binary array was constructed by checking random.random() < 0.5 == True (using the "random" module in Python—see https://python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/library/random.html) to decide each element. If the statement returned true, then the element would be defined as 1, and otherwise, 0. This method resulted in a training set with a binomial, experimentally measured  $\eta$  distribution (Fig. 5A).

Broad-entropy IC set generation. To create a broad-entropy IC set, first, a vector was created representing a set of order parameters ranging from 0 to 1. The length of this vector was set to the desired number of samples in the dataset (10,000 for training, 1000 for validation). This set of order parameters may be thought of as containing different expected probabilities for finding a 1 in an IC.

Then, the same procedure as with the high-entropy IC set was followed, with two exceptions: (1) instead of random.random() < 0.5 == True determining the value of each element in each IC array, random.random() <  $\eta$  == True was the determining equality, and (2) each IC was generated using a unique  $\eta$  from the aforementioned vector (see "Training

set generation"). This strategy ensured that the IC set represented a broad range of ordering, from all 0s, to 50–50 0 s and 1 s, to all 1s (Fig. 5B).

Next-game-state generation. NGSs were calculated from IC arrays by applying Life rules assuming a toroidal grid (see the update\_grid() function here: game.py).

Reshaping data. To make the handling of training set data easier, the final stage of the training set generator involves reshaping the data into a list of sub-lists, in which each entry in the list contains a sub-list corresponding to a specific IC. Within each unique sub-list, two strings are stored, one corresponding to a flattened IC, and one corresponding to a flattened NGS (see the generate sets () function here: game.py).

**Validation set generation.** Validation sets were generated using the same methods in "Training set generation," as the random random () function ensures sufficiently random IC generation, ensuring training and validation sets remained entirely independent. Combined with the incredibly large space of possible  $32\times32$  binary arrays  $(2^{32\times32}\approx1.80\times10^{308}$  unique possibilities), this made the likelihood of even a single sample being identical between a 10,000-sample training set and a 1000-sample validation set negligible (see "Learning abilities"). This, in turn, ensured that over the course of model training, training loss and validation loss remained independent of one another.

**Testing set generation**. A 10-sample testing set was constructed to validate the performance of models during and after training, in a manner other than by inspecting the validation and training losses. Five samples in the testing set were generated stochastically in the same manner as in "Training set generation," and 5 samples were manually defined to match known periodic and complex patterns found in Life (Fig. 3). NGSs were recursively generated for a total of 10 states (including the IC) per sample, for all 10 samples in the testing set.

Dataset generation for differently sized grids. For datasets (training, validation, testing) for LifeGPT-MultiGrid (see "Learning life on differently sized grids"), the only difference in the procedure was to specify different grid sizes ( $W_G \in \{2, 4, 8, 16\}$ ) during IC generation, and to introduce a padding character ("p") which was append as many times as needed to ends of each sub-list for those which had grid sizes smaller than the largest specified grid size, such that all sub-lists were the same length.

# Forgetful causal masking (FCM) implementation

FCM was implemented using the "x-transformers" library 65. FCM was built into this library as part of the AutoregressiveWrapper class by default. FCM was enabled by setting mask\_prob to 0.15, which was empirically shown to be effective by Liu et al. 68.

FCM involves randomly masking a predetermined percentage of past-tokens during the learning process, in addition to standard causal attention masking. The authors<sup>68</sup> argue that this method prevents over-attending to more recent tokens in a given sequence, encouraging attention to tokens in the "distant past." We implemented FCM into our model, which increased the rate at which model accuracy improved with each epoch. Furthermore, FCM enabled our model to achieve 100% accuracy on our testing set with a sampling temperature of 1.0 in less than 50 epochs, which was previously unattainable when training with a broad-entropy dataset.

Implementing FCM increased the GPU RAM requirements of our LifeGPT, necessitating a decrease in batch size from 20 to 5 samples.

# Model development

Training was initially conducted with high-entropy data. Due to the (pseudo)random nature of our training set generation script (see "Training set generation"), and the high number of samples in the training set (10,000), there was some diversity of training data entropy despite use of a static order parameter of ( $\eta = 0.5$ ) (Fig. 5A). Nevertheless, observed model accuracy

<span id="page-9-0"></span>issues for low-entropy ICs prompted the use of broad-entropy datasets (Fig. 5B), which resulted in for improved performance. Later, LifeGPT-MultiGrid (Learning life on differently sized grids) was developed using a modified dataset to show that the LifeGPT framework allowed for simultaneous learning of multiple grid sizes.

# **Accuracy benchmarking**

The testing dataset consisted of 10 flattened 32 × 32 binary arrays, representing initial states in Life, and their resulting iterations in accordance with Life state-transition rules on a toroidal (periodic) grid, numbering one through ten. Depending on the type of model being trained (the number of desired time-step jump predictions), different columns in the testing dataset would be selected as the ground truth. Accuracy at each checkpoint (every 2 epochs, starting with epoch 2) was determined by inputting the task statement (e.g., @PredictNextState<INITIAL\_CONDITION>) into a tokenizer, and subsequently using the tokenized data as the prompt for the autoregressive model. Since all of LifeGPT was programmed to output the exact number of tokens necessary to fully describe the NGS. After LifeGPT was finished generating the output data, this data was compared to the ground truth (the flattened NGS in accordance with Life's rules), and an accuracy score was computed using the following function:

$$A = \frac{1}{N} \sum_{i=1}^{N} \delta_{y_i \hat{y}_i} \tag{3}$$

where A is the Accuracy of the model, N is the total number of cell predictions across the testing dataset ( $N = 32 \times 32 \times 10 = 10,240$  cells for a dataset with ten pairs of  $32 \times 32$  grid game examples),  $y_i$  is the ground truth value,  $\hat{y}_i$  is the predicted value, and  $\delta$  is the Kronecker delta function which equals 1 if  $y_i = \hat{y}_i$  and 0 otherwise. An accuracy score was computed once every 2 epochs, for each model sampling temperature in the set 0, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1, starting with epoch 2.

## Training set entropy effects experimental procedure

The goal of this experiment was to determine was effect, if any, that the ordering of the ICs making up the training data for LifeGPT would have on accuracy (A), when fed ICs generated with varying expected order parameters ( $\langle \eta \rangle_{\rm IC}$ ). We used two versions of LifeGPT; one was trained on highentropy training data, and the other on broad-entropy training data. Next, a broad-entropy testing set (comprised of 110 samples, each with a ( $\langle \eta \rangle_{\rm IC}$ ) value ranging linearly from 0 to 1) was generated in the same manner as the broad-entropy training set. The stochasticity of the IC generation process ensured both broad entropy sets remained independent. Finally, both models were benchmarked on each sample in a manner similar to the method in "Accuracy benchmarking and sampling temperature effects," the only difference being that A was calculated for each sample in the testing set, as opposed to an average of all samples. Finally, A versus ( $\langle \eta \rangle_{\rm IC}$ ) was plotted for both models (see Fig. 4).

#### **Autoregressive loop implementation**

The autoregressive loop is simply an implementation of LifeGPT where the model is placed inside a loop, where a portion of its output, corresponding to the NGS, is converted into an input tensor and is fed back into LifeGPT, for a desired number of iterations. As such, the NGS outputs of the previous loop iteration serves as the IC in the next loop iteration. In this way, the autoregressive loop is able to "run" Life in a similar recursive manner as the original algorithm. We ran the autoregressive loop using two versions of LifeGPT trained on the broad-entropy training set: one which stopped training at epoch 16 (chosen due to this version being the earliest instance of A = 1.0) for sampling temperature = 1), and one that continued training until epoch 50, across sampling temperatures 0, 0.25 0.5, 0.75, and 1. We compared the NGSs outputted from our autoregressive loop method with the ground truth NGSs, generated with the Life algorithm, and created animations for all model-sampling temperature combinations, showing the

progression of the ground truth Life system, the autoregressive loopgenerated NGSs, and the discrepancy between the two.

We also ran the autoregressive loop (and the Life algorithm) for 249 iterations (resulting in 250 game states, including the ICs), using only the epoch 50, sampling temperature = 0 version of LifeGPT due to time and compute constraints, for all 10 samples in the testing set. For each game state, we compared LifeGPT's predictions to the GT Life algorithm's output using the metric "Error Rate," defined as:

Error Rate = 
$$1 - \frac{1}{G} \sum_{i=1}^{G} \delta_{y_i \hat{y}_i}$$
 (4)

where ErrorRate is the fraction of incorrect cells the model, G is the total number of cells comprising each game state ( $N = 32 \times 32 = 1024$  cells),  $y_i$  is the ground truth value,  $\hat{y}_i$  is the predicted value, and  $\delta$  is the Kronecker delta function.

## LifeGPT-multigrid experimental procedure

Accuracy characterization was performance in the same manner as described in "Accuracy benchmarking and sampling temperature effects," aside from the use of a different testing dataset. A testing set of 100 samples (25 samples per  $W_G$  for  $W_G \in \{2, 4, 8, 16\}$ ) was created (utilizing broad entropy IC generation). Inference was performed for each sample, and average accuracies were calculated for each 25-sample group in accordance with equation (3).

## Use of generative AI

Some Python scripts used for data generation, model training, data processing, and figure generation were written with the assistance of GPT-3.5, GPT-4, and GPT-40 from OpenAI. All scripts generated/edited in this manner were carefully reviewed, validated, and manually corrected, in the case of errors, by an author prior to implementation in our work.

## **Data availability**

All data used in the development of this work are available at https://github.com/lamm-mit/LifeGPT.

## Code availability

The underlying code [and training/validation datasets] for this study is available in the LifeGPT Github repository and can be accessed via this link https://github.com/lamm-mit/LifeGPT.

Received: 21 February 2025; Accepted: 8 June 2025; Published online: 01 September 2025

#### References

- Hernández Encinas, A., Hernández Encinas, L., Hoya White, S., Martín del Rey, A. & Rodríguez Sánchez, G. Simulation of forest fire fronts using cellular automata. Adv. Eng. Softw. 38, 372–378 (2007).
- Zhao, H.-T., Zhao, X., Jian-cheng, L. & Xin, L.-y. Cellular automata model for Urban Road traffic flow Considering Internet of Vehicles and emergency vehicles. J. Comput. Sci. 47, 101221 (2020).
- 3. Dewdney, A. K. Computer recreations. Sci. Am. 259, 104-107 (1988).
- Hesselbarth, H. W. & Göbel, I. R. Simulation of recrystallization by cellular automata. Acta Metall. Mater. 39, 2135–2143 (1991).
- Wolfram, S. A New Kind of Science, 1st edn (Wolfram Media, Inc., 2002).
- 6. Gardner, M. Mathematical games. Sci. Am. 223, 120-123 (1970).
- Bak, P., Chen, K. & Creutz, M. Self-organized criticality in the 'Game of Life'. Nature 342, 780–782 (1989).
- Wolfram, S. Can Al solve science? https://writings.stephenwolfram. com/2024/03/can-ai-solve-science/ (2024).
- Fehsenfeld, K. M., Gomes, M. A. F. & Sales, T. R. M. Persistence of scaling behaviour in the Game of Life. *J. Phys. A Math. Gen.* 31, 8417 (1998).

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>10. Martin, B. Inherent generation of fractals by cellular automata. Complex Syst. [https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Inherent-](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Inherent-Generation-of-Fractals-by-Cellular-Martin/05a9d1320ab7422bff7d03c78946502c070662b4)[Generation-of-Fractals-by-Cellular-Martin/](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Inherent-Generation-of-Fractals-by-Cellular-Martin/05a9d1320ab7422bff7d03c78946502c070662b4) [05a9d1320ab7422bff7d03c78946502c070662b4](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Inherent-Generation-of-Fractals-by-Cellular-Martin/05a9d1320ab7422bff7d03c78946502c070662b4) (1994).
- 11. Wolfram, S. Statistical mechanics of cellular automata. Rev. Mod. Phys. 55, 601–644 (1983).
- 12. Zhang, S. et al. Intelligence at the edge of chaos. In Proc. 13th International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), [https://](https://openreview.net/forum?id=IeRcpsdY7P) [openreview.net/forum?id](https://openreview.net/forum?id=IeRcpsdY7P)=IeRcpsdY7P (ICLR, 2025).
- 13. Springer, J. M. & Kenyon, G. T. It's hard for neural networks to learn the game of life. In Proc. International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN), 1–8 [https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9534060) [9534060](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9534060) (IEEE, 2021).
- 14. Aach, M., Goebbert, J. H. & Jitsev, J. Generalization over different cellular automata rules learned by a deep feed-forward neural network <http://arxiv.org/abs/2103.14886> (2021).
- 15. Weisstein, E. W. Moore neighborhood. MathWorld A Wolfram Web Resource. [https://mathworld.wolfram.com/MooreNeighborhood.](https://mathworld.wolfram.com/MooreNeighborhood.html) [html.](https://mathworld.wolfram.com/MooreNeighborhood.html)
- 16. Gray, L. A Mathematician Looks at Wolfram"s New Kind of Science. In Notices Amer. Math. Soc. 50 [https://www.semanticscholar.org/](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/A-Mathematician-Looks-at-Wolfram%27%27s-New-Kind-of-Gray/7a29d3259a6e60cf4cf7682d14c161022fba2fd5) [paper/A-Mathematician-Looks-at-Wolfram%27%27s-New-Kind](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/A-Mathematician-Looks-at-Wolfram%27%27s-New-Kind-of-Gray/7a29d3259a6e60cf4cf7682d14c161022fba2fd5)[of-Gray/7a29d3259a6e60cf4cf7682d14c161022fba2fd5](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/A-Mathematician-Looks-at-Wolfram%27%27s-New-Kind-of-Gray/7a29d3259a6e60cf4cf7682d14c161022fba2fd5) (2003).
- 17. Zenil, H. et al. An algorithmic information calculus for causal discovery and reprogramming systems. iScience 19, 1160–1172 (2019).
- 18. Hernández-Orozco, S. et al. Algorithmic probability-guided machine learning on non-differentiable spaces. Front. Art. Intell. 3 [https://www.](https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/artificial-intelligence/articles/10.3389/frai.2020.567356/full) frontiersin.org/journals/artifi[cial-intelligence/articles/10.3389/frai.](https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/artificial-intelligence/articles/10.3389/frai.2020.567356/full) [2020.567356/full](https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/artificial-intelligence/articles/10.3389/frai.2020.567356/full) (2021).
- 19. Gillioz, A., Casas, J., Mugellini, E. & Khaled, O. A. Overview of the transformer-based models for NLP tasks. InProc. 15th Conference on Computer Science and Information Systems (FedCSIS), 179–183 <https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9222960> (IEEE, 2020).
- 20. Nguyen, T. et al. Scaling transformer neural networks for skillful and reliable medium-range weather forecasting. In Proc. 38th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), [https://](https://openreview.net/forum?id=aBP01akha9) [openreview.net/forum?id](https://openreview.net/forum?id=aBP01akha9)=aBP01akha9 (NeurIPS, 2024).
- 21. Alerskans, E., Nyborg, J., Birk, M. & Kaas, E. A transformer neural network for predicting near-surface temperature. Meteorol. Appl. 29, e2098 (2022).
- 22. Saleem, H., Salim, F. & Purcell, C. STC-ViT: spatio-temporal continuous vision transformer for weather forecasting. [http://arxiv.](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17966) [org/abs/2402.17966](http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17966) (2024).
- 23. Latif, S. et al. Transformers in speech processing: a survey. [https://](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.11607) [arxiv.org/abs/2303.11607](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.11607) (2025).
- 24. Mamatov, N. S., Niyozmatova, N. A., Abdullaev, S. S., Samijonov, A. N. & Erejepov, K. K. Speech recognition based on transformer neural networks. In Proc International Conference on Information Science and Communications Technologies (ICISCT), 1–5. [https://ieeexplore.](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9670093) [ieee.org/document/9670093](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9670093) (IEEE, 2021).
- 25. Li, N., Liu, S., Liu, Y., Zhao, S. & Liu, M. Neural speech synthesis with transformer network. In Proc. Thirty-Third AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Thirty-First Innovative Applications of Artificial Intelligence Conference and Ninth AAAI Symposium on Educational Advances in Artificial Intelligence, AAAI'19/IAAI'19/ EAAI'19, 6706–6713. <https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33016706> (AAAI Press, 2019).
- 26. Berroukham, A., Housni, K. & Lahraichi, M. Vision transformers: a review of architecture, applications, and future directions. In Proc. 7th IEEE Congress on Information Science and Technology (CiSt), 205–210. <https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10410015> (IEEE, 2023).
- 27. Xu, Z., Yu, C., Fang, F., Wang, Y. & Wu, Y. Language agents with reinforcement learning for strategic play in the werewolf game. [http://](http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18940) [arxiv.org/abs/2310.18940](http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18940) (2025).

- 28. Hu, S. et al. A survey on large language model-based game agents. <http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.02039> (2025).
- 29. Liu, Y., Sun, P. & Li, H. Large language models as agents in two-player games. <http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08078> (2024).
- 30. Buehler, M. J. FieldPerceiver: domain agnostic transformer model to predict multiscale physical fields and nonlinear material properties through neural ologs. Mater. Today 57, 9–25 (2022).
- 31. Moussad, B., Roche, R. & Bhattacharya, D. The transformative power of transformers in protein structure prediction. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 120, e2303499120 (2023).
- 32. Brugière, P. & Turinici, G. Transformer for time series: an application to the S&P500. In Advances in Information and Communication. FICC 2025. Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems, 1285 (ed. Arai, K.) [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-84460-7\\_33](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-84460-7_33) (Springer, Cham, 2025).
- 33. Lezmi, E. & Xu, J. Time series forecasting with transformer models and application to asset management. [https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract](https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=4375798)= [4375798](https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=4375798) (2023).
- 34. Vaswani, A. et al. Attention is all you need. In Proc. 31st Conf. Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS), [https://papers.nips.cc/](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2017/hash/3f5ee243547dee91fbd053c1c4a845aa-Abstract.html) paper\_fi[les/paper/2017/hash/3f5ee243547dee91fbd053c1c4a845aa-](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2017/hash/3f5ee243547dee91fbd053c1c4a845aa-Abstract.html)[Abstract.html](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2017/hash/3f5ee243547dee91fbd053c1c4a845aa-Abstract.html) (NeurIPS, 2017).
- 35. Saeedizade, M. J. & Blomqvist, E. Navigating ontology development with large language models. In Meroño Peñuela, A. et al. (eds.) The Semantic Web, 143–161 (Springer Nature, 2024).
- 36. Buehler, M. J. Generative retrieval-augmented ontologic graph and multiagent strategies for interpretive large language model-based materials design. ACS Eng. Au 4, 241–277 (2024).
- 37. Buehler, M. J. Accelerating scientific discovery with generative knowledge extraction, graph-based representation, and multimodal intelligent graph reasoning. Machine Learn. Sci. Technol. [http://](http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ad7228) [iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ad7228](http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ad7228) (2024).
- 38. Luu, R. K. & Buehler, M. J. BioinspiredLLM: conversational large language model for the mechanics of biological and bio-inspired materials. Adv. Sci. 11, 2306724 (2023).
- 39. Dobson, J. E. On reading and interpreting black box deep neural networks. Int. J. Digit. Human. 5, 431–449 (2023).
- 40. Bedau, M. A. ARTIFICIAL LIFE. In Matthen, M. & Stephens, C. (eds.) Philosophy of Biology, Handbook of the Philosophy of Science, 585–603. [https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780444515438500277) [B9780444515438500277](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780444515438500277) (North-Holland, 2007).
- 41. Zhao, Y. et al. Progressive macromolecular self-assembly: from biomimetic chemistry to bio-inspired materials. Adv. Mater. 25, 5215–5256 (2013).
- 42. Capra, F. Complexity and life. Theory Cult. Soc. 22, 33–44 (2005).
- 43. Skinner, J. E. et al. Application of chaos theory to a model biological system: evidence of self-organization in the intrinsic cardiac nervous system. Integr. Physiol. Behav. Sci. 31, 122–146 (1996).
- 44. Kurakin, A. The self-organizing fractal theory as a universal discovery method: the phenomenon of life. Theor. Biol. Med. Model. 8, 4 (2011).
- 45. Nisioti, E. et al. From text to life: on the reciprocal relationship between artificial life and large language models. In Proc. 2024 Artificial Life Conference (ALIFE 2024), 39, [https://doi.org/10.1162/isal\\_a\\_00759](https://doi.org/10.1162/isal_a_00759) (ASME, 2024).
- 46. Wolfram, S. What's really going on in machine learning? Some minimal models [https://writings.stephenwolfram.com/2024/08/](https://writings.stephenwolfram.com/2024/08/whats-really-going-on-in-machine-learning-some-minimal-models/) [whats-really-going-on-in-machine-learning-some-minimal-models/](https://writings.stephenwolfram.com/2024/08/whats-really-going-on-in-machine-learning-some-minimal-models/) (2024).
- 47. Wulff, N. & Hertz, J. A. Learning cellular automaton dynamics with neural networks. In Proc. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 5. [https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/1992/hash/](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/1992/hash/d6c651ddcd97183b2e40bc464231c962-Abstract.html) [d6c651ddcd97183b2e40bc464231c962-Abstract.html](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/1992/hash/d6c651ddcd97183b2e40bc464231c962-Abstract.html) (Morgan-Kaufmann, 1992).
- 48. Mordvintsev, A., Randazzo, E., Niklasson, E. & Levin, M. Growing neural cellular automata. Distill 5, e23 (2020).

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>49. Wolfram, S. Computational foundations for the second law of thermodynamics. Stephen Wolfram Writings [https://writings.](https://writings.stephenwolfram.com/2023/02/computational-foundations-for-the-second-law-of-thermodynamics/) [stephenwolfram.com/2023/02/computational-foundations-for-the](https://writings.stephenwolfram.com/2023/02/computational-foundations-for-the-second-law-of-thermodynamics/)[second-law-of-thermodynamics/](https://writings.stephenwolfram.com/2023/02/computational-foundations-for-the-second-law-of-thermodynamics/) (2023).
- 50. Israeli, N. & Goldenfeld, N. Coarse-graining of cellular automata, emergence, and the predictability of complex systems. Phys. Rev. E 73, 026203 (2006).
- 51. Wolfram, S. The concept of the ruliad—stephen wolfram writings. [https://writings.stephenwolfram.com/2021/11/the-concept-of-the](https://writings.stephenwolfram.com/2021/11/the-concept-of-the-ruliad/)[ruliad/](https://writings.stephenwolfram.com/2021/11/the-concept-of-the-ruliad/) (2021).
- 52. Komarov, A. S., Palenova, M. M. & Smirnova, O. V. The concept of discrete description of plant ontogenesis and cellular automata models of plant populations. Ecol. Model. 170, 427–439 (2003).
- 53. Balzter, H., Braun, P. W. & Köhler, W. Cellular automata models for vegetation dynamics. Ecol. Model. 107, 113–125 (1998).
- 54. Halley, J. M., Comins, H. N., Lawton, J. H. & Hassell, M. P. Competition, succession and pattern in fungal communities: towards a cellular automaton model. Oikos 70, 435–442 (1994).
- 55. Ferreira, I. Ed. P., Moral, Rd. A., Ferreira, C. P. & Godoy, W. A. C. Modelling fungus dispersal scenarios using cellular automata. Ecol. Inform. 14, 53–58 (2013).
- 56. Laszlo, J. A. & Silman, R. W. Cellular automata simulations of fungal growth on solid substrates. Biotechnol. Adv. 11, 621–633 (1993).
- 57. Dobrescu, R. & Purcarea, V. Emergence, self-organization and morphogenesis in biological structures. J. Med. Life 4, 82–90 (2011).
- 58. Jakab, K., Neagu, A., Mironov, V., Markwald, R. R. & Forgacs, G. Engineering biological structures of prescribed shape using selfassembling multicellular systems. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 101, 2864–2869 (2004).
- 59. Xiao, M. et al. DNA mediated self-assembly of multicellular microtissues. Microphysiol. Syst. 2. [https://mps.amegroups.org/](https://mps.amegroups.org/article/view/4304) [article/view/4304](https://mps.amegroups.org/article/view/4304) (2018).
- 60. Newman, S. A., Forgacs, G. & Muller, G. B. Before programs: the physical origination of multicellular forms. Int. J. Dev. Biol. 50, 289–299 (2006).
- 61. Ha, D. & Schmidhuber, J. World Models. CoRR [http://arxiv.org/abs/](http://arxiv.org/abs/1803.10122) [1803.10122](http://arxiv.org/abs/1803.10122) (2018).
- 62. Rendell,P. Game of life universal turingmachine. InRendell,P. (ed.)Turing Machine Universality of the Game of Life, 71–89 [https://doi.org/10.1007/](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-19842-2_5) [978-3-319-19842-2\\_5](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-19842-2_5) (Springer International Publishing, 2016).
- 63. Pérez, J., Marinković, J. & Barceló, P. On the Turing completeness of modern neural network architectures. In Proc. 7th International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), [https://openreview.](https://openreview.net/forum?id=HyGBdo0qFm) net/forum?id=[HyGBdo0qFm](https://openreview.net/forum?id=HyGBdo0qFm) (ICLR, 2019).
- 64. Buehler, M. J. PRefLexOR: preference-based recursive language modeling for exploratory optimization of reasoning and agentic thinking. npj. Artif. Intell. 1, 4 (2025).
- 65. Wang, P. lucidrains/x-transformers [https://github.com/lucidrains/x](https://github.com/lucidrains/x-transformers)[transformers](https://github.com/lucidrains/x-transformers) (2024).
- 66. Shannon, C. E. A mathematical theory of communication. Bell Syst. Tech. J. 27, 379–423 (1948).
- 67. MacKay, D. J. C. Information Theory, Inference and Learning Algorithms (Cambridge University Press, 2003).

68. Liu, H. et al. Towards better few-shot and finetuning performance with forgetful causal language models <http://arxiv.org/abs/2210.13432> (2023).

# Acknowledgements

J.A.B. is supported by theDepartment ofDefense (DoD) through the National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate (NDSEG) Fellowship Program. We acknowledge support from USDA (2021-69012-35978), DOE-SERDP (WP22-S1-3475), ARO (79058LSCSB, W911NF-22-2-0213 and W911NF2120130), as well as the MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab, MIT's Generative AI Initiative, and Google. Additional support from NIH (U01EB014976 and R01AR077793) is acknowledged.

# Author contributions

J.A.B. and M.J.B. conceived the concept, plan of study, developed the model and research, and wrote the paper. J.A.B. developed the algorithms, codes, and GitHub repository. J.A.B. conducted the scientific investigations. J.A.B. and M.J.B. wrote, revised, and finalized the paper.

# Competing interests

The authors declare no competing interests.

# Additional information

Supplementary information The online version contains supplementary material available at <https://doi.org/10.1038/s44387-025-00014-w>.

Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to Markus J. Buehler.

Reprints and permissions information is available at <http://www.nature.com/reprints>

Publisher's note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.

Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)[nc-nd/4.0/](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).

© The Author(s) 2025