<span id="page-0-0"></span>pubs.acs.org/Macromolecules Article

# Competing Effects of Cohesive Energy and Cross-Link Density on the Segmental Dynamics and Mechanical Properties of Cross-Linked Polymers

Xiangrui Zheng, Yafang Guo,\* Jack F. Douglas,\* and Wenjie Xia\*

**Cite This:** *Macromolecules* 2022, 55, 9990–10004

ACCESS

Metrics & More

Article Recommendations

Supporting Information

**ABSTRACT:** To develop structure—property relationships for cross-linked thermosetting polymers, it is crucial to better understand key factors that control their segmental dynamics and macroscopic properties. Here, we employ a coarse-grained (CG) polymer model to systematically explore the combined effect of varying the cohesive energy  $(\varepsilon)$  and cross-link density (c) on the segmental relaxation time and mechanical properties for a model cross-linked glass-forming thermoset material. We find that increasing c increases both the glass transition temperature  $T_g$  and fragility of glass formation, while the fragility decreases with an increase in  $\varepsilon$ . These competing effects of  $\varepsilon$  and c on fragility are practically important since fragility determines the overall temper-

ature width of the glass formation over which the non-Arrhenius temperature dependence is observed. Our simulation results show that the basic mechanical properties (*i.e.*, bulk and shear moduli) of cross-linked thermosets are mainly influenced by  $\varepsilon$ . More interestingly, the macroscopic mechanical properties are found to be strongly correlated with the Debye–Waller parameter  $\langle u^2 \rangle$ , a measure of material "stiffness" at a molecular level. In particular, the distribution of local molecular stiffness,  $1/\langle u^2 \rangle$ , exhibits a nearly universal Gaussian distribution at a fixed reduced temperature  $T/T_g$ . Our work reveals the key and competitive roles of cohesive energy and cross-link density in controlling the segmental dynamics, large scale, and local mechanical properties of cross-linked thermosets, providing an understanding that should be useful in the molecular design of these materials.

# 1. INTRODUCTION

Cross-linked thermosetting polymers are widely used in engineering and technological applications due to their superior mechanical properties, excellent chemical resistance, and heat stability.<sup>1,2</sup> Polymer melts upon cooling down toward their glass-transition temperatures  $T_{\rm g}$  characteristically exhibit a rapid slowing down in their relaxation and diffusion processes, which goes hand-in-hand with an increased stiffness following a pattern that is a characteristic of glass-forming (GF) liquids generally.<sup>3,4</sup> Various molecular factors (e.g., additives, 5,6 molecular chemistry, 7,8 and cross-link density 9, have been found to influence the temperature (T) at which structural arrest occurs (i.e., "glass transition"), the rate of change of the structural relaxation times, and diffusion coefficients of the component molecules with T or other thermodynamic parameters, such as pressure and other applied fields. In the specific case of thermoset polymers, it is well appreciated that increasing the cross-link density normally increases  $T_{\rm g}$  and narrows the temperature range over which the glass transition occurs.  $^{11,12}$  (As we shall discuss below, the temperature width of glass formation over which non-Arrhenius variation of the relaxation time is observed provides a measure of the "fragility" of glass formation.) However, the

addition of polar additive molecules and nanoparticles and the use of highly polar cross-linking agents in thermoset polymers generally lead to appreciable changes in the cohesive interaction of these materials so that trends in the dynamic properties can be hard to predict. In the present work, we explore the specific influence of cohesive interaction on the dynamics and mechanical properties of thermoset materials by molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to gain fundamental insights into potential factors that could be used to better design improved epoxy resins and other cross-linked materials for their many engineering applications.

Given the evident technological importance of thermoset materials, the segmental relaxation dynamics of thermoset materials has been exhaustively studied experimentally. As representatives of these studies, we mention the work of Rolla *et al.* who utilized dielectric spectroscopy and followed the

Received: August 17, 2022 Revised: October 12, 2022 Published: November 8, 2022

vitrification process arising from the cross-linking or "curing" process at fixed T. The effect of cross-linking at fixed T has been explored by dielectric and mechanical measurements for a wide range of cross-linked polymer materials. 10-17 Collectively, these experiments have indicated that the introduction of cross-links tends to increase the structural relaxation time and  $T_{o}$ , along with the fragility of glass formation and dynamic heterogeneity (defined and estimated below). However, it is surprising to find that the relaxation time of a wide range of polymeric glass formers can be well described by a reduced temperature-density scaling, independent of the pressure, 17,18 cross-link density, 18 and molecular weight. 19 In addition to the cross-link density, experimental studies have indicated that the chemical composition, monomer, and topological structure of GF polymers also play important roles in the fragility and relaxation dynamics, where the polymers with more rigid structures exhibiting more packing frustration are usually more fragile.<sup>20-22</sup>

Computational studies provide an opportunity for gaining insights into structure-property relationships for polymer materials. It has long been recognized from simulations of nonnetwork polymers that some molecular parameters are particularly implicated in changes in the dynamics of GF polymer materials, such as polymer topology (e.g., ring and star polymers, polymer brushes, and polymers with side groups),<sup>23</sup> the addition of nanoparticles or additives,  $^{28-31}$ changes in chain stiffness, 32-34 and the cohesive interaction strength of polymer molecules. 34-37 The present work extends these earlier studies on glass formation in polymer materials to describe cross-linked network polymers. To some degree, such network polymers can be considered to be just high molecular mass polymers, but the network topology of polymer material can evidently lead to new effects.

As noted previously, the often polar nature of the crosslinking agent and the addition of various molecular or nanoparticle additives can alter the cohesive interaction strength of thermoset polymers and therefore greatly influence the segmental dynamics and mechanical performance of this broad class of materials. 5,6,29,30,38 The description of these property changes is often discussed in terms of engineeringrelated terms and properties. For example, Lesser and Calzia prepared a range of epoxy resins having different cross-linking agents and a "chain extender" to determine their effect on the yielding response of these materials. These authors inferred from their observations that  $T_{\rm g}$  and cohesive energy density were the main factors influencing the yield response of these materials. From a simulation standpoint, Elder et al.8 recently investigated the effect of the polar nature of the cross-linking agent on the thermodynamic and mechanical properties of cross-linked polymer networks using atomistic MD simulations and experiments, where the hydrogen bond interactions associated with polar cross-linking agents resulted in an increase in the overall cohesive energy density of the material. These changes in thermodynamics occurred in concert with a greatly reduced rate of structural relaxation and the strengthening of the material. We take these and other relevant observations<sup>34–36</sup> as our motivation to focus on the influence of cohesive interaction strength on the dynamics and mechanical behaviors of a coarse-grained (CG) model of crosslinked bulk polymer over a relatively wide T range in comparison to atomistic modeling.

Temperature transferability is a serious challenge in CG simulations of polymer materials. 40,41 To address this general

problem, Xia et al. 42-45 have proposed an energy-renormalization (ER) method based on a *T*-dependent renormalization of the cohesive interaction strength and effective interaction range length-scale parameters, which allows for a reasonably faithful description of atomistic models of polymeric GF materials over a wide range of *T*. Recently, the ER methodology, in conjunction with machine learning to optimize potential parameters, has been extended to thermoset materials, 46 which should enable a more refined model of thermoset materials. However, this refinement is not pursued in our present work, since our focus is placed on general trends rather than any particular thermoset material.

Despite numerous experimental and computational studies, the glassy dynamics of cross-linked thermosets is still not fully understood. In our preceding work, we explored the influence of varying the cross-link density on the segmental dynamics and basic mechanical properties of network polymers described by a simple CG model in which no changes in cohesive interaction strength were considered.<sup>47</sup> The principal goal of this earlier work was to understand the effect of crosslinking in isolation from other contributing factors on the thermoset dynamics. In the present work, we systematically investigate the segmental relaxation dynamics and mechanical properties of cross-linked thermosets over a wide range of cross-link densities and a large range of cohesive energy governing the strength of local short-range attractive interactions in the material. The findings in this present work highlight the key role of cross-link density and cohesive energy played in the glass formation of cross-linked materials over a wide range of T, which should be helpful in developing the structure-property relationships for cross-linked thermo-

### 2. MODEL AND SIMULATION DETAILS

**2.1. Coarse-Grained (CG) Model.** The model of cross-linked polymer melts adopted in this paper is a widely used bead-spring CG model, <sup>48</sup> which is composed of 1200 linear chains with each consisting of 10 beads and 600 tetrafunctional cross-linkers with each consisting of five beads (Figure 1a). The molecular structure used in this work is the same as that in our previous work. <sup>47</sup> The molecules are mixed in a large cubic

Figure 1. (a) Cross-linked structure schematic and molecular structures of the cross-linker and linear chain. The red and blue beads are reactive beads where cross-linking reactions can occur in the cross-linker and linear chain, respectively. Every red bead can react with one blue bead only, and every cross-linker can link with four linear chains at most. The chemical bonds between the red and blue beads show that these reactive beads have been reacted, while the blue beads not linked to the red beads indicate that the linear chain does not react with the cross-linker yet. (b) Snapshot of the cross-linked system with cross-link density  $\varepsilon = 0.98$  and cohesive energy  $\varepsilon = 1.0$ .

simulation box with periodic boundary conditions in all directions to form a bulk system.

The nonbonded interactions are modeled via the standard truncated and shifted Lennard-Jones (LJ) potential,

$$U_{\rm LJ}(r) = \begin{cases} 4\varepsilon u_0 \left[ \left(\frac{\sigma}{r}\right)^{12} - \left(\frac{\sigma}{r}\right)^6 - \left(\frac{\sigma}{r_{\rm c}}\right)^{12} + \left(\frac{\sigma}{r_{\rm c}}\right)^6 \right], & r < r_{\rm c} \\ 0, & r \ge r_{\rm c} \end{cases}$$
(1

where r is the distance between two beads,  $r_{\rm c}=2.5\sigma$  is the cutoff distance,  $\sigma$  governs the effective van der Waals radius, and  $u_0$  describes the energy scale of the model cross-linked material. The dimensionless parameter  $\varepsilon$ , which controls the strength of the nearest-neighbor van der Waals attractive interactions and is directly related to the cohesive energy density,  $^{36}$  is altered from 0.8 to 1.2 in this work to explore the effect of cohesive energy on the dynamics of cross-linked thermosets. Xu *et al.* have systematically investigated the effect of cohesive energy on the relaxation dynamics of linear polymer melts over a wide range.  $^{34,35,49}$  Considering the slower dynamics of cross-linked thermosets, a relatively smaller range of cohesive energy is chosen in this work. The bond connectivity along neighboring beads is determined via the finitely extensible nonlinear elastic (FENE) potential,

$$U_{\text{FENE}} = -0.5KR_0^2 \ln \left[ 1 - \left( \frac{r}{R_0} \right)^2 \right] + 4u_0 \left[ \left( \frac{\sigma}{r} \right)^{12} - \left( \frac{\sigma}{r} \right)^6 \right] + u_0$$
(2)

where  $K=30u_0/\sigma^2$ , and  $R_0=1.5\sigma$ . The first term is attractive, and the second LJ term is repulsive with a smaller cutoff distance  $R_c=2^{1/6}\sigma$ . In this work, the chains are fully flexible without bond-angle potential.<sup>50</sup> For simplicity, a standard reduced LJ unit is used for all the quantities expressed, where length  $\sigma$ , energy  $u_0$ , and mass of each bead m are set to be unity. Other units of interest can be derived from these fundamental units, e.g., dimensionless temperature can be expressed in unit of  $T^*=k_{\rm B}T/u_0$  and dimensionless time in  $\tau^*=\tau/\sqrt{m\sigma^2/u_0}$ .

**2.2. Simulation Details.** Here, we describe the simulation methods, which have also been described in our preceding study focusing on the same thermoset model where only the cross-link density was varied.<sup>47</sup> All the MD simulations are performed in Large Scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator (LAMMPS) software. 51 The initial mixture of linear chains and cross-linkers is relaxed in an NPT ensemble at a temperature T = 1.0 and a pressure P = 0 to ensure that linear chains and cross-linkers are homogeneously mixed. A subsequent multiple cross-linking-relaxation algorithm developed by Varshney et al.<sup>52</sup> is performed to connect the molecules into a three-dimensional network, which has been found to be well consistent with the experiments. 47,52,53 For every iteration, we bond the unreacted reactive bead pairs within the cutoff distance first, and then an energy minimization process and NPT relaxation process are performed to reduce the energy fluctuations caused by the introduction of new chemical bonds. The cross-linkingrelaxation cycle stops when more than 98% reactive beads are reacted. The multiple cross-linking-relaxation algorithm is helpful in producing a well-relaxed cross-linked structure, and the algorithm does not avoid the formation of loops and

dangling chains, which is similar to the structure of real polymers.

To investigate the combined effects of cross-link density and cohesive energy on the relaxation dynamics and mechanical properties, nine systems with different cross-link densities and cohesive energy parameters are produced. The cross-link density is defined as the ratio of the total number of cross-links that were formed to the maximum number that could be formed in this work for simplification, 54,55 which can also be altered by the molecular weight between the cross-links<sup>39,56</sup> and the number of cross-linkers. 11,12 First, these nine systems are relaxed in the NPT ensemble at T = 2.0 for  $t = 4 \times 10^4$ , followed by a NVT relaxation over a period of  $t = 2 \times 10^4$ . Then, the systems are quenched from a high temperature T =2.0 to a low temperature T = 0.1 in a stepwise fashion with a temperature step size of  $\Delta T = 0.05$ . At each temperature, the system is relaxed in the NPT ensemble over a period of  $t = 2 \times 10^{-5}$ 10<sup>4</sup>. Configurations are collected at the end of each run, and the thermodynamic properties are averaged over the last t = 8× 103. The system with different cross-link densities and cohesive energy parameters is named as c = x,  $\varepsilon = y$ , which means that the cross-link density (c) of the system is x, and the cohesive energy  $(\varepsilon)$  is y.

#### 3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

**3.1. Thermodynamic Properties.** We first analyze the influence of c and  $\varepsilon$  on the thermodynamic properties of crosslinked thermosets, including density  $\rho$ , thermal expansion coefficient  $\alpha_{\rm p}$ , and isothermal compressibility  $\kappa_{\rm T}$ , which are fundamental quantities to characterize the thermodynamics. These thermodynamic properties as a function of T are summarized in Figure S1 in the Supporting Information. As expected, the increase in  $\varepsilon$  and c leads to an obvious increase in  $\rho$  and a significant decrease in  $\alpha_{\rm p}$  and  $\kappa_{\rm T}$  above  $T_{\rm g}$  S7,58 Similar trends have been observed in polymer mixtures, where the density at  $T_{\rm g}$  increased and the isothermal compressibility decreased as the cohesive energy of additives increased. It is notable that the cohesive energy parameter  $\varepsilon$  exhibits a significantly larger influence on the thermodynamic properties than the cross-link density c.

Figure 2a depicts the  $\rho$  as a function of  $T/\varepsilon$  for systems with varying c and  $\varepsilon$ . For all the systems,  $\rho$  decreases nearly linearly with increasing  $T/\varepsilon$  at low T, and then it decreases more sharply above  $T_{\rm g}$ . Moreover,  $\rho$  increases with the increase in cfor systems with fixed  $\varepsilon$ , which has been reported in cross-linked epoxy networks. <sup>57,58</sup> We find that  $\rho$  collapses onto a master curve for systems with fixed c but varying  $\varepsilon$ , which is also observed in linear GF polymer melts and agrees qualitatively with the generalized entropy theory (GET) predictions for linear polymer melts.<sup>36</sup> Instead of focusing directly on the  $\alpha_p$  and  $\kappa_T$ , we consider the dimensionless properties  $\alpha_p^*$  and  $\kappa_T^*$ ,  $\alpha_p^* = T\alpha_p$  and  $\kappa_T^* = \rho k_B T \kappa_T$ , which are the central thermodynamic properties in the GET of glass formation.  $^{32}$  The data in Figure 2b,c indicate that both  $\alpha_{\rm p}^*$  and  $\kappa_{\rm g}^*$  increase significantly above  $T_{\rm g}$ . Moreover, these basic thermodynamic properties can be reduced into master curves for systems having fixed c but varying  $\varepsilon$ , just as in the case of density  $\rho$ . A similar "universal" relationship has been reported in linear GF polymer melts. These master curves as a function of the reduced temperature  $T/\varepsilon$  indicate that the effect of cohesive energy on the thermodynamic properties can be nearly eliminated for a fixed cross-link density by a rescaling of T, in general accord with the GET. 60,61 In addition, for

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Basic thermodynamic properties as a function of  $T/\varepsilon$  for cross-linked thermosets with varying cross-link density c and cohesive energy  $\varepsilon$ . (a) Number density  $\rho$ . (b) Reduced thermal expansion coefficient  $\alpha_p^*$ . (c) Reduced isothermal compressibility  $\kappa_T^*$ .

systems with fixed  $\varepsilon$ , the highly cross-linked system exhibits a smaller  $\alpha_p^*$  and  $\kappa_T^*$  due to the constrained mobility of particles. A comprehensive analysis about the effect of varying cross-link density alone on the thermodynamic properties can be found in our previous work. 47

**3.2. Segmental Relaxation Dynamics.** We begin our analysis of dynamics from the structural relaxation time  $\tau_{\alpha}$  which is a central dynamic quantity in the glass formation. The  $\tau_{\alpha}$  is determined from the self-part of the intermediate scattering function  $F_{\rm s}(q,t)$ ,

$$F_{s}(q, t) = \frac{1}{N} \left\langle \sum_{j=1}^{N} \exp\{-i\mathbf{q} \cdot [\mathbf{r}_{j}(t) - \mathbf{r}_{j}(0)]\} \right\rangle$$
(3)

and it is defined as the time when  $F_s(q, t)$  decays to 0.2.<sup>33,35,36</sup>  ${\bf q}$  is the wave vector, and  ${\bf r}_j(t)$  is the coordinate of particle j at time t. The average in eq 3 is over all beads and over distinct initial times. The wavenumber is chosen to be  $q = |{\bf q}| = 7.1$  in this work, which is close to the first peak of the static structure factor. In particular, to reduce errors in the estimates of  $\tau_{av}$  a time step of 0.002 or 0.01 is used in the high or low  $T_s$ 

respectively.<sup>33</sup> As is normally the case in GF liquids, <sup>36,50,62,63</sup>  $F_s(q, t)$  exhibits a two-step decay, consisting of a "fast  $\beta$ -relaxation" on the picosecond timescale characterizing the initial decay of the  $F_s(q, t)$  and an  $\alpha$ -relaxation on a longer timescale over which  $F_s(q, t)$  decays to 0 (Figure S2a in the Supporting Information). Accordingly, we fit our data to a two-step relaxation function, which has been found to successfully describe  $F_s(q, t)$  data for simulated polymeric and other GF materials  $^{62,63}$ 

$$F_{s}(q, t) = (1 - A_{\alpha})e^{-(t/\tau_{f})^{\beta_{f}}} + A_{\alpha}e^{-(t/\tau_{\alpha})^{\beta}}$$
(4)

where prefactors  $A_{\alpha}$  and  $1-A_{\alpha}$  characterize the relative contribution or "strength" of  $\alpha$ - and fast  $\beta$ -relaxation processes,  $\tau_{\alpha}$  and  $\tau_{\rm f}$  are the corresponding relaxation times, and the exponents  $\beta$  and  $\beta_{\rm f}$  describe the deviation of these relaxation processes from exponential decay. The fast  $\beta$ -relaxation time  $\tau_{\rm f}$  and the exponent  $\beta_{\rm f}$  have been found to have a weak T dependence. Hence, the  $\tau_{\rm f}$  estimated at the onset temperature is used to represent the fast  $\beta$ -relaxation time of cross-linked thermosets with varying c and  $\varepsilon$  (Figure S2b in the Supporting Information).

We summarize  $\tau_{\alpha}$  as a function of 1/T for systems with varying c and  $\varepsilon$  in Figure 3a. The results show that the  $\tau_{\alpha}$  increases significantly with decreasing T and increasing  $\varepsilon$  for cross-linked thermosets, as observed in linear polymer melts. For systems with fixed  $\varepsilon$ , highly cross-linked networks exhibit a longer relaxation time, consistent with the

Figure 3. (a) Structural relaxation time  $\tau_{\alpha}$  as a function of 1/T for systems with varying cross-link density c and cohesive energy c. Here,  $\tau_{\alpha}$  is defined as the time when  $F_s(q,t)$  decays to 0.2. The  $\tau_{\alpha}$  increases with increasing c and c, while the c has a much more significant influence on  $\tau_{\alpha}$  than c. (b) VFT collapse of T dependence of  $\tau_{\alpha}$  for various c and c. The dashed line indicates the VFT relation,  $\ln(\tau_{\alpha}/\tau_{0}) = DT_{0}/(T-T_{0})$ . The good collapse onto the dashed line indicates that the VFT equation can describe the relaxation dynamics well for all the cross-linked systems with varying c and c.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 4. Characteristic temperatures of glass formation as a function of cohesive energy  $\varepsilon$  for cross-linked thermosets with a range of cross-link density c. (a) Onset temperature  $T_A$ . (b) Glass transition temperature  $T_g$  estimated from VFT fits using the definition  $\tau_a(T_g) = 10^3$ . (c) VFT critical temperature  $T_0$ . (d) Characteristic temperature ratio  $T_g/T_0$ . Dashed lines indicate a linear fitting. All the characteristic temperatures and the breadth of glass transition  $T_g/T_0$  exhibit a linear increase with increasing  $\varepsilon$ .

experimental results for epoxy resins<sup>11,15</sup> and MD simulations for single-chain cross-linked nanoparticle melts.<sup>31</sup> As the cross-link density and cohesive energy increase, the segmental mobility becomes significantly reduced.<sup>3,8</sup> Qualitatively, these trends are expected based on numerous other experimental and simulation studies discussed in Section 1 and in our previous work,<sup>47</sup> and we next quantify these trends.

We observe that  $\tau_{\alpha}$  follows the Arrhenius T dependence at high temperatures and a non-Arrhenius behavior at low temperatures, where this change of behavior depends on the cross-link density and cohesive energy. In many pervious works on glass formation,  $^{21,23,31}$  the Vogel–Fulcher–Tammann (VFT) relationship,  $\tau_{\alpha}=\tau_0$  exp  $[DT_0/(T-T_0)]$ , has been found to quantify the non-Arrhenius variation of  $\tau_{\alpha}$  at low T well, where the fitted value of  $T_0$  is termed as the "VFT critical temperature" and K=1/D measures the VFT-derived "kinetic fragility parameter" describing the relative strength of the T dependence of  $\tau_{\alpha}$  (shown in Figures 4c and 5a below).  $^{32,35}$  As a reality check, Figure 3b shows that the VFT relationship indeed describes the  $\tau_{\alpha}$  of our model thermosets rather well for all the c and  $\varepsilon$  values considered. This good agreement over a large T range is typical for a wide range of GF liquids.  $^{30,63,65}$ 

It is recognized that the glass formation is a broad transition process that can be characterized by multiple characteristic temperatures.  $^{30,34,35,66}$  Here, we explore the effect of c and  $\varepsilon$  on the characteristic temperatures and the fragility of glass formation to gain a further understanding of these important properties for GF cross-linked polymers. It can be seen from Figure 3a that the  $\tau_{\alpha}$  follows the Arrhenius regime at high T,  $\tau_{\alpha} = \tau_{\infty} \exp\left(\Delta E/k_{\rm B}T\right)$ . We focus on the "onset temperature"  $T_{\rm A}$  first, a characteristic temperature at which the T dependence of  $\tau_{\alpha}$  departs from the Arrhenius regime.  $T_{\rm A}$  is defined as the T at which this deviation is larger than 1%, i.e.,  $\left[\tau_{\alpha} - \frac{1}{2}\right]$ 

**Figure 5.** Estimates of the fragility parameter. (a) Fragility parameter K as a function of the cohesive energy parameter  $\varepsilon$ . The K decreases with increasing  $\varepsilon$ , while it increases with increasing cross-link density  $\varepsilon$ . (b) Normalized fragility parameter  $K/K_0$  as a function of  $T_g$ . The variation  $K/K_0$  with  $T_g$  is roughly linear, but the slope is negative.

 $\tau_{\alpha}(Arrhenius)]/$   $\tau_{\alpha} > 10^{-2}$ , where  $\tau_{\alpha}(Arrhenius)$  is the expected structural relaxation time from Arrhenius fits.<sup>35</sup> The

estimates of  $T_{\rm A}$  for systems with varying c and  $\varepsilon$  are shown in Figure 4a. A near-linear growth with  $\varepsilon$  is observed for systems with a wide range of c, consistent with the trend estimated from GET predictions and MD simulations for fully flexible linear polymer melts.  $^{34-36,61}$  Evidently, a larger cross-link density or stronger cohesive interaction strength leads to a departure from the Arrhenius regime at higher T, and the relaxation process becomes conspicuously more non-exponential

Next, the glass transition temperature  $T_g$  is estimated based on the VFT equation, and a similar range of  $\tau_{\alpha}$  is used for all the systems. The upper bounds for T are taken to be  $T_A$ , and the lower bounds are just the lowest T available in our simulations. Limited by the cooling conditions and simulation techniques, the models have difficulty in reaching equilibrium at low temperatures.<sup>47,63</sup> Hence, a relatively narrow range of temperature is estimated in our simulations.<sup>23,34,35</sup> To reduce the uncertainty in the long extrapolation to estimate  $T_{\rm g}$  based on the relaxation time data obtained at temperatures much higher than the experimental  $T_{g'}$  we adopt a "computational"  $T_{\rm g}$  criterion based on the definition of  $\tau_{\rm a}(T_{\rm g})=10^3$  (i.e., corresponding to a laboratory timescale on the order of 1 ns), appropriate to the cooling rate used in our simulations. <sup>25,26,67</sup> Despite the large difference between the timescales of the computational and experimental criteria of  $T_g$  (i.e.,  $\tau_{\alpha}(T_g)$  = 100 s), it was found in our preceding work<sup>47</sup> that they exhibit a remarkable linear relationship. Both methods of estimating  $T_{\rm g}$ have their uncertainties so that you "choose your poison" when you choose one estimate or the other. We regard the precisely estimated computational  $T_{\rm g}$  as a reasonable indicator of the trend in the experimental  $T_{\rm g}$ , but this quantity should not be equated to the  $T_{\rm g}$  reported by experimentalists. We also emphasize that the consistency of  $T_g$  is only for our crosslinked thermoset model, and the trend observed in the work is based on the estimated  $T_{\rm g}$  defined by  $\tau_{\alpha}(T_{\rm g})=10^3$ .

We see that  $T_{\rm g}$  increases linearly with increasing  $\varepsilon$  for the systems with fixed c (Figure 4b), as predicted by the GET.  $^{34,36,61}$  Xu et al.  $^{34-36,49}$  systematically investigated the influence of cohesive energy and chain stiffness on the glass formation of linear polymer melts based on both the GET and CG-MD simulations, where they found that both the rigid structure and large cohesive energy resulted in a higher  $T_{\rm g}$ . The same trend was also observed in the polystyrene polymer melts, where the  $T_{\rm g}$  of polymer mixtures elevated as the cohesive energy of additives increased.<sup>59</sup> In addition, the highly cross-linked thermoset exhibits a higher  $T_{\rm g}$  for systems with fixed  $\varepsilon$ , as widely observed in epoxy resins and cross-linked polymers. 16,57,58 Figure 4c shows the VFT critical temperature To estimated from VFT fits to our simulation data, which characterizes the termination of glass formation.  $^{60,61}$   $T_0$  also increases linearly with increasing  $\bar{\varepsilon}$ . Briefly, all the characteristic temperatures of glass formation increase approximately linearly with an increase in the cohesive interaction strength for cross-linked polymer melts with a wide range of cross-link densities. These findings are consistent with earlier GET predictions and MD simulations for linear polymer melts without bending constraints.34,61

The characteristic temperature ratio  $T_{\rm g}/T_0$  provides a measure of the "breadth" of glass formation, and we next consider how the glass formation width depends on the  $\varepsilon$  for all the cross-linked systems that we study. It can be seen from Figure 4d that the glass formation becomes narrower for systems having a higher c and lower  $\varepsilon$ . The characteristic

temperature ratio  $T_{\rm g}/T_0$  (or its reciprocal) is also widely used to estimate the "fragility" of glass formation. In particular, a smaller value of  $T_{\rm g}/T_0$  generally indicates a narrower glass formation and a more "fragile" GF liquid.  $^{30,49}$  Thus, increasing the  $\varepsilon$  leads to a stronger glass former, while increasing the c increases fragility. Below, we further analyze the competing effects of cross-link density and cohesive energy on the fragility.

For the estimation of the fragility parameter, different methods are widely used in the studies of glass formation, such as the characteristic temperature ratio,  $^{32,47}$  VFT fragility parameter K estimated from the reciprocal of the VFT fitting parameter D,  $^{31,32,47}$  and the common definition m estimated from the T dependence of  $\tau_{\alpha}$  at  $T_{\rm g}$ . Starr and Douglas analyzed the effect of nanoparticles on the fragility based on various estimation methods, where the fragility with all the definitions exhibited the same trend with the increase in nanoparticle concentration. Considering that the fragility parameter m is related to  $T_{\rm g}$ , which is estimated from a narrow range of  $\tau_{\alpha}$  in our work, the VFT fragility parameter K  $\equiv 1/D$  estimated from the VFT fitting of  $\tau_{\alpha}$  is used in our work to avoid the uncertainty of  $T_{\rm g}$ . A larger value of K means a more fragile material.

The fragility increases with c for cross-linked thermosets with a fixed  $\varepsilon$ , which agrees well with the trend observed in simulation works<sup>31,47</sup> and the trend reported by Roland and Casalini 12,68 in the cross-linked polyvinylethylene networks with the dielectric spectroscopy experiments. A decrease in this fragility measure with an increase in  $\varepsilon$  is found over a wide range of c (Figure 5a),  $^{34,49,66}$  consistent with the observation in Figure 4d. The same trend was also reported in the polymer mixtures, where increasing the cohesive energy of additives produced a stronger glass former.<sup>59</sup> It is notable that fragility increases with increasing cross-link density, while it exhibits an opposing trend with increasing cohesive energy. It has been recognized that the fragility is mainly determined by the packing efficiency, where the polymers with rigid backbones and weak cohesive interaction tend to be more fragile. 20,49,66 However, the broad-band dielectric relaxation spectroscopy experiments performed by Fitz et al.<sup>97</sup> in the cross-linked poly(methylphenylsiloxane) networks indicated that the fragility was nearly independent of cross-link density, molecular weight, and  $T_{\rm g}$ . This clearly shows that the simple increase in fragility with cross-link density does not hold generally. In our current model system, the effects of cross-link density and cohesive interaction on fragility compete against each other. Increasing the cross-link density can increase the cohesive interaction strength when the cross-linking agent is highly polar, which should lead to a decreasing fragility that counterbalances the normal fragility increase from the geometrical constraints of cross-linking. It is just this competing effect between cross-link density and cohesive interaction "strength" on fragility that complicates the prediction of the segmental relaxation of thermoset materials and, thus, their material design. In addition, the fragility is also found to be modified by the compositions without changing the cohesive energy or cross-link density of polymers, where the addition of oligomers, <sup>69,70</sup> plasticizers, and anti-plasticizers 29,59,71 would decrease the fragility compared to the pure polymer melts. For example, the work of Dalle-Ferrier et al. 65 found that the addition of an oligomer could modify the fragility of polystyrene/oligomer blends. They also demonstrated that the variation of fragility was related to structural

features occurring at a length scale much larger than the interchain or intermolecular distance.

Finally, we explore the relationship between the fragility parameter K and  $T_g$ , where the K is normalized by its value  $K_0$ for the system with nearly zero cross-link density, c = 0.04 and  $\varepsilon = 1$ . We see that the normalized fragility  $K/K_0$  exhibits a linear relationship with  $T_g$  (Figure 5b), but the slope is negative. This finding is consistent with the trend in Figure 4 that  $T_{\rm g}$  increases with  $\varepsilon$ , while K decreases with  $\varepsilon$ . This inverted trend between  $T_{\rm g}$  and fragility is also observed in poly( $\alpha$ -olefins) when the cohesive interaction strength is varied.<sup>66</sup> Experiments by Kunal et al. have shown that the relationship between fragility and  $T_{\rm g}$  can be continuously "tuned" by modifying the chemical structures of the backbone and side groups of polymers, where the fragility was mainly controlled by the flexibility of side groups relative to that of backbones, while the  $T_{\rm g}$  depended more on the backbone flexibility and side-group bulkiness.<sup>20</sup> Recently, Duarte et al. investigated the effect of side groups on the glass transition using dielectric spectroscopy and differential scanning calorimetry, where both the molecular architecture and orientation had a pronounced influence on the fragility,  $T_o$ , and relaxation dynamics of methacrylate polymers. 21 The CG-MD simulations also indicated that by varying the cohesive energy strength and chain stiffness, the fragility and  $T_g$  can be tuned.49

3.3. Thermodynamic Scaling. Despite the significant slowing down of relaxation dynamics that resulted from the higher cross-link density, it has been recognized that the relaxation time can be reduced as a function of temperature T and volume  $V: \tau_{\alpha} = f(TV')$ , where the "thermodynamic scaling exponent"  $\gamma$  is a material-dependent constant. This is termed as "thermodynamic scaling", which has been confirmed for a wide range of polymer melts. 18,72 For instance, the experimental studies performed by Dreyfus et al. indicated that the  $\alpha$ -relaxation time measured at various T and P can collapse on a master curve by plotting  $\tau_{\alpha}$  as a function of  $\rho^4/T$ for ortho-terphenyl. 73,74 Observations on various molecular and polymeric glass formers have demonstrated a remarkable universality in the "thermodynamic scaling" of  $\tau_{\alpha}$ , where  $\gamma$  is observed to vary significantly in magnitude when a wide range of materials is considered, but this parameter is independent of T for a given material. 18,72,75 Recently, the origin of thermodynamic scaling was rationalized by Douglas and Xu<sup>65</sup> based on a simple equation of state taking into account the anharmonicity of intermolecular interactions and the GET, where these arguments were validated over a wide range of P and T using the CG-MD simulations of model polymer melts.

We then test the thermodynamic scaling for our cross-linked thermosets by examining whether a reduced density—temperature scaling describes the  $\tau_{\alpha}$  and Debye—Waller parameter  $\langle u^2 \rangle$ , where the latter is defined as the mean-square displacement of the polymer segments at the picosecond timescale. With  $\tau_{\alpha}$  normalized by  $\tau_{\theta}$  which is the fast  $\beta$ -relaxation time at the onset temperature  $T_{\rm A}$ , we observe that  $\tau_{\alpha}/\tau_{\rm f}$  of our simulated cross-linked thermoset polymers follows the thermodynamic scaling over a wide range of c and  $\varepsilon$  with an exponent near 7.0 (Figure 6a). A similar value of the exponent was found in earlier simulations based on a similar CG model of the linear polymer melts. <sup>65,75</sup> We emphasize that this universality of  $\tau_{\alpha}/\tau_{\rm f}$  needs to be explored in other more complex systems before its universality can be taken as established.

Figure 6. Tests of thermodynamic scaling. (a) Reduced structural relaxation time  $\tau_a/\tau_f$ . The data collapse onto a universal curve for all the systems with varying cohesive energy  $\varepsilon$  and cross-link density c. (b) Reduced Debye–Waller parameter  $\langle u^2 \rangle/\langle u_A^2 \rangle$ . The symbols in panel (b) are the same as those in panel (a). The data reduce to a universal curve for systems with fixed  $\varepsilon$  and varying c. The dashed lines indicate a power function fitting,  $\langle u^2 \rangle/\langle u_A^2 \rangle = a \times [(\rho \sigma^3)^{7.0} \varepsilon/k_B T]^b + d$ , where a, b, and d are fitting parameters. The fitting parameters (a, b, c) are (1.96, -0.18, -1.57) for  $\varepsilon = 0.8, (2.17, -0.20, -1.69)$  for  $\varepsilon = 1.0$ , and (2.10, -0.24, -1.53) for  $\varepsilon = 1.2$ . The coefficients of determination  $R^2$  of fitting curves are 0.998, 0.997, and 0.998, respectively. The arrow indicates an increase in  $\varepsilon$ . The inset describes the Debye–Waller parameter at the onset temperature  $T_{A}$ ,  $\langle u_A^2 \rangle$ , as a function of  $\varepsilon$ . Evidently,  $\langle u_A^2 \rangle$  decreases significantly with increasing  $\varepsilon$ .

Moreover, we find that  $\langle u^2 \rangle$ , normalized by its value at  $T_A$ , can be phenomenologically well described by the relation  $\langle u^2 \rangle$  $\langle u_{\rm A}^2 \rangle = a \times [(\rho \sigma^3)^{7.0} \varepsilon / k_{\rm B} T]^b + d$ , where a, b, and d are fitting parameters (see the caption of Figure 6b for fitting values). A similar trend was also reported in the CG model of polymer chains with the structure of polypropylene, where the  $\langle u^2 \rangle$ estimated over a wide range of P and T exhibited a clear thermodynamic scaling.<sup>65</sup> We also observe that the onset value of the Debye-Waller parameter  $\langle u_A^2 \rangle$  shows a remarkable decrease with increasing  $\varepsilon$  (inset of Figure 6b). Douglas et al. 76 found in a series of simulated Zr-Cu metallic glasses having a range of compositions that  $\langle u_A^2 \rangle$  varied nearly linearly with various measures of fragility of glass formation. This trend is consistent with the decrease in  $\langle u_A^2 \rangle$  with increasing  $\varepsilon$  and a corresponding decrease in the fragility of the thermoset established in our discussion above. Xia et al. have analyzed the influence of  $\varepsilon$  on the  $\langle u^2 \rangle$  for the CG polycarbonate model over a wide range of T, where  $\langle u^2 \rangle$  decreased significantly with increasing  $\varepsilon$ . 44 Recently, Elder et al. 77 systematically investigated the effect of polymer composition on the glassy dynamics, where the Debye-Waller parameter estimated from the molecular simulations and quasi-elastic neutron scattering

**Figure 7.** Estimation of mechanical properties for cross-linked thermosets with varying cross-link density c and cohesive energy  $\varepsilon$ . (a) Shear modulus G as a function of T. (b) Bulk modulus B as a function of T. The symbols in panel (b) are the same as those in panel (a). The arrows indicate an increase in  $\varepsilon$ . (c) G as a function of  $\varepsilon$  at various T for cross-linked thermosets with c = 0.98. (d) B as a function of  $\varepsilon$  at various T for cross-linked thermosets with c = 0.98. The dashed lines in panels (c) and (d) are the linear fitting lines. G and G increase nearly linearly with  $\varepsilon$ .

(QENS) measurements was found to decrease with the increase in the content of polar monomers. Evidently, increasing cohesive interaction strength generally tends to decrease the average amplitude of thermal motion in liquids, similar to increasing density or pressure. We do not claim, however, that this trend is universal based on our limited study of this phenomenon.

3.4. Mechanical Properties. In addition to thermodynamic properties and the segmental relaxation of thermoset materials, their mechanical properties are also of vital importance in the engineering applications. We then estimate some basic mechanical properties (i.e., shear modulus G and bulk modulus B) over a wide range of T in their glassy state for systems with varying c and  $\varepsilon$ . Considering that the symbol "K" usually refers to the fragility parameter in the glass formation, a common symbol "B" referring to the bulk modulus 23,31 is used to avoid confusion in this work. The shear deformation simulations are performed at a constant shear strain rate of 5 ×  $10^{-4}$  for five times for each system. The shear modulus G is estimated from the linear regime of average stress-strain curves, while the bulk modulus B is estimated from the reciprocal of isothermal compressibility  $\kappa_T$ . Qualitatively, we see that both the G and B in their glassy state decrease remarkably with increasing T (Figure 7a,b), as widely observed in polymeric and metallic glass formers. 29,37,78 The decrease in moduli upon heating is quite different from the classical rubbery theory where G increases linearly with T, 79,80 and we next examine this variation of stiffness with cohesive interaction strength and cross-link density in greater detail.

A higher  $\varepsilon$  evidently leads to a significant stiffening for the thermoset material, <sup>8,29,42,59</sup> while the c has a relatively mild influence on the thermoset moduli in their glassy state. <sup>58</sup> The

same trend was also reported by Morel et al., where the elastic properties in the glassy state were mainly controlled by cohesive energy, while the cross-link density only had an insignificant influence for a wide range of epoxy networks. In particular, it is found that G increases nearly linearly with increasing  $\varepsilon$  (Figure 7c). This trend also accords with the result reported previously by Elder et al.8 for cross-linked polymer networks. The bulk modulus B is also found to increase with the cohesive energy (Figure 7d), which agreed well with the linear relationship between the bulk modulus and the cohesive energy density reported by Morel et al.7 in the cross-linked epoxies and by Guo and Simon<sup>81</sup> in the crosslinked polycyanurate networks. This trend is reminiscent of the effect of anti-plasticizer additives on glassy materials, which serves to increase the material cohesive energy density, reduce its compressibility, and correspondingly increase the moduli in the glassy state. 29,59

In our previous work, <sup>47</sup> we found that G and B for simulated cross-linked thermosets can be described by a reduced variable description involving  $T/T_{\rm g}$  over a wide range of c, and we next consider whether this reduced variable description also applies when  $\varepsilon$  is varied. We find that the moduli, when normalized by  $\varepsilon$ , indeed reduce to master curves with the same semi-empirical functional form as that in our previous paper when both  $\varepsilon$  and c are varied (Figure 8). A similar master curve behavior has been observed in epoxy-based glassy network polymers, where the compressive yield stress normalized by the cohesive energy density collapsed onto a curve for different kinds of resins with varying molecular mass. <sup>39</sup> Guo and Simon <sup>81</sup> systematically explored the effect of cross-link density on the viscoelastic bulk modulus of polycyanurate networks using the pressurizable dilatometer, where they found that the viscoelastic bulk moduli

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 8.** Mechanical properties normalized by cohesive energy  $\varepsilon$  as a function of reduced temperature  $T/T_{\rm g}$  for cross-linked thermosets with varying cross-link density c and cohesive energy  $\varepsilon$ . The dashed lines are fitting curves described in eq 5. (a) Normalized shear modulus  $G/\varepsilon$ . The fitting parameters  $(G_0, \Delta h, \Delta s)$  are determined to be (15.35, -8.21, -8.12). Coefficient of determination of fitting curves,  $R^2=0.947$ . (b) Normalized bulk modulus  $B/\varepsilon$ . The fitting parameters  $(G_0, \Delta h, \Delta s)$  are determined to be (70.93, -3.82, -3.44), where  $R^2=0.915$ .

at  $T_{\rm g}$  for the cross-linked network with different cross-link densities are similar and the glassy bulk modulus is proportional to the cohesive energy density. The experiments performed by Lesser and Calzia<sup>39</sup> and Guo and Simon<sup>81</sup> qualitatively accord with the master curve of reduced moduli observed in our cross-linked thermosets with varying c and  $\varepsilon$ . This reduced variable description of our modulus data illustrates the essential role of both  $\varepsilon$  and  $T_{\rm g}$  in the mechanical properties of cross-linked thermosets.<sup>7,8,39</sup> Following our previous work,<sup>47</sup> we fit the normalized moduli (G, B) data to a minimal two-state model developed by Lin et al.<sup>82</sup> (dashed curves in Figure 8),

$$G/G_0 = \Phi, \ \Phi = 1/[1 + \exp((\Delta h - T\Delta s)/RT)] \tag{5}$$

where  $G_0$  is the extrapolated low T value of G, and  $\Delta h$  and  $\Delta s$  are empirical free energy parameters describing the probability of occurrence of local stiff regions in the material. A closely related function, the so-called "Fermi function", has been used to empirically describe the T dependence of moduli for diverse glassy materials (e.g., polymer, biomaterials and breakfast cereals, etc.). 82–84 As discussed by Lin et al., 82 the "Fermi function" can be derived from an approximation to the two-state model described by eq 5 so that the approximate relation between eq 5 and the Fermi function is quite understandable. We view this type of expression for the moduli in the glassy state as being akin to the empirical VFT equation for

organizing shear viscosity and diffusion data for glass formers in the liquid regime.

It has been recently recognized that the shear modulus G can be apparently related to the local material stiffness estimated from  $\langle u^2 \rangle$  for a wide range of glass formers.  $^{37,42,78}$  Leporini and Puosi developed a master curve relating G and  $\langle u^2 \rangle$  that described various glass formers to a remarkable approximation. Here, we further explore this relationship between mechanical properties of GF cross-linked materials and  $\langle u^2 \rangle$  for systems having variable c and c. As in many previous studies, we see a linear relationship between c and local stiffness c0, which holds for all the systems that we simulate (Figure 9). The relation that we observe is consistent

**Figure 9.** Shear modulus G as a function of local molecular stiffness  $k_{\rm B}T/\langle u^2\rangle$  for systems with varying cross-link density c and cohesive energy  $\varepsilon$ . The solid lines indicate the linear fitting. We see that G increases nearly linearly with increasing local stiffness,  $k_{\rm B}T/\langle u^2\rangle$ , as reported in previous studies.

with the "universal relationship" found in the fully flexible linear polymer melts,  $^{85}$  Zr-Cu $^{78}$  and Al-Sm $^{86}$  metallic glasses. In addition, we estimate the bulk modulus B as a function of  $\langle u^2 \rangle$  (Figure 10) to verify the relationship established in our previous work when only the cross-link density was varied. 47 Again, a near-universal relationship is obtained when the  $\varepsilon$  is fixed and c is varied. In accord with our previous work, B scales as  $B \sim \langle u^2 \rangle^{-3/2}$  to a good approximation.<sup>47</sup> The same approximate scaling relationship was also reported by Douglas and co-workers in simulations of linear polymer melts<sup>65</sup> and thin films<sup>87</sup> so that this expression seems to have some generality even when different materials are considered. We observe that a larger  $\varepsilon$  leads to a steeper variation of B when  $\langle u^2 \rangle$  becomes smaller at low T. Given this correlation between macroscopic stiffness and  $\langle u^2 \rangle$  as well as the conventional interpretation of  $\langle u^2 \rangle$  as a measure of local stiffness of molecular bonds, we next consider  $\langle u^2 \rangle$  as a measure of local material stiffness since the definition of a local shear modulus is mathematically ambiguous.78

**3.5. Dynamic and Elastic Heterogeneity.** It has been broadly appreciated that the slowing down of the rate of relaxation dynamics upon cooling is related to the growth of

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 10.** Bulk modulus B as a function of Debye—Waller parameter  $\langle u^2 \rangle$  for systems with varying cross-link density c and cohesive energy  $\varepsilon$ . For systems with fixed  $\varepsilon$ , the B collapses onto a master curve, independent of the c. The dashed curves are fitting lines above  $T_g$  with the function form  $B = 1/[\kappa_T^0 \times (\langle u^2 \rangle/\langle u_A^2 \rangle)^{3/2} + \kappa_T^1]$ , where  $(\kappa_T^0, \kappa_T^1)$  are fitting parameters. The fitting parameters  $(\kappa_T^0, \kappa_T^1)$  are (0.10, 0.030) for  $\varepsilon = 0.8$ , (0.06, 0.025) for  $\varepsilon = 1.0$ , and (0.03, 0.022) for  $\varepsilon = 1.2$ . The coefficients of determination  $R^2$  of fitting curves are 0.988, 0.992, and 0.992, respectively. The arrow indicates an increase in  $\varepsilon$ . With the increase in  $\varepsilon$ , B exhibits a steeper variation when  $\langle u^2 \rangle$  becomes small, corresponding to a less compressible material.

dynamic heterogeneity in the super-cooled liquid, where heterogeneities are dynamic in the sense that they have a limited lifetime over which domains of particles with excessively high and low mobility exist. Phis type of dynamic heterogeneity, an apparent characteristic of GF liquids, is also well appreciated from previous studies of thermoset polymers. For instance, Elder et al. quantified this type of heterogeneity in atomistic MD simulations of cross-linked poly(dicyclopentadiene) networks, where the rootmean-squared fluctuations of chemically unique atom groups were different and the atoms in linear segments exhibited a

higher mobility than those belonging to cross-links. They also analyzed the molecular motion at various length scales, where the intrachain motions and interchain segmental motions were related to the  $\alpha$ -relaxation while the sub- $T_{\rm g}$  relaxations were associated with the localized motions. As summarized in Section 1 and our previous study on simulated thermosets, dielectric experiments and MD simulations for the cross-linked networks have consistently indicated that a higher cross-link density resulted in a more significant slowing down in the relaxation dynamics but also a more heterogeneous distribution in particle mobilities.  $^{10,11,56}$ 

In our previous work on model cross-linked polymer networks having a fixed  $\varepsilon$ , we found that the introduction of cross-links resulted in a greater heterogeneity in the distribution of the local molecular stiffness of the thermosets.<sup>4</sup> To correspondingly gauge the effect of changing the  $\varepsilon$  on this type of dynamic heterogeneity, we first consider color maps of the local stiffness  $1/\langle u^2 \rangle$  at a fixed temperature value T = 0.5for the systems having varying c and  $\varepsilon$  (Figure 11). The color bar scale is the same for all plots to make a more intuitive comparison. Red domains in the color map indicate that the particles in this region have extremely low amplitude motion ("mobility") and, thus, a high "local stiffness", while the teal blue domains indicate relatively low stiffness or "soft" regions. It is evident that the  $\varepsilon$  has a much more remarkable influence on the local stiffness, which is consistent with the observation of Elder et al. in the glassy polymer networks where the increased cohesive energy density resulted in a progressive reduction in the atomic mobility and a great slowing down in the structural relaxation dynamics.8 For the system with a relatively low cohesive energy ( $\varepsilon = 0.8$ ), the fixed temperature T = 0.5 is much higher than  $T_g$ , the particles exhibit a small local stiffness and a slight heterogeneity due to their considerable mobility, and thus, the color map looks nearly teal blue (Figure 11a). As  $\varepsilon$  becomes larger, the cross-linked

**Figure 11.** Color maps of local stiffness  $1/\langle u^2 \rangle$  of particles at fixed temperature T=0.5 for systems with varying cross-link density c and cohesive energy  $\varepsilon$ . (a) Effect of  $\varepsilon$ . (b) Effect of c. The color bar scale is the same for all plots. Both the local stiffness and dynamic heterogeneity increase with increasing c and  $\varepsilon$ , while the  $\varepsilon$  plays a more significant role than c.

<span id="page-10-0"></span>network gets significantly stiffer and more heterogeneous, as observed in the CG polycarbonate models. For the systems with fixed  $\varepsilon$  (Figure 11b), the highly cross-linked network exhibits a slightly larger local stiffness and greater degree of heterogeneity due to the reduced mobility constrained by cross-links. Both the higher cross-link density and cohesive energy result in an increase in mechanical properties and local stiffness, the similar trend was also observed when the antiplasticizer additives were introduced into the pure polymer. Page 1999 of the similar trend was also observed when the antiplasticizer additives were introduced into the pure polymer.

To further quantify the effect of c and  $\varepsilon$  on the local stiffness  $1/\langle u^2 \rangle$ , we summarize the normalized probability distribution of  $1/\langle u^2 \rangle$  at fixed temperature T=0.5 for systems with c=0.98 (Figure 12a). It can be seen that a large number of polymer

Figure 12. (a) Normalized probability distributions of local molecular stiffness  $1/\langle u^2\rangle$  at fixed temperature T=0.5 for the systems with cross-link density c=0.98. As the cohesive energy  $\varepsilon$  increases, the probability distribution of  $1/\langle u^2\rangle$  gets broader accompanied by an increase in average value. (b) Normalized probability distributions of  $1/\langle u^2\rangle$  at reduced temperature  $T/T_g=0.7$  for the cross-linked systems with varying c and c. All the systems reasonably show a similar distribution, independent of the c and c.

segments exhibit extremely high or low local stiffness or mean-squared displacement, consistent with the observation in cross-linked poly(dicyclopentadiene) networks \$^{8,56} and polymeric glass formers.  $^{29,37}$  As the  $\varepsilon$  increases, the peak position of probability distribution gets larger and shifts toward a higher average  $1/\langle u^2 \rangle$ . In addition, the distribution of  $1/\langle u^2 \rangle$  gets broader with the  $\varepsilon$  increasing, where a sharp increase in the variance of probability distribution is observed (inset of Figure 12a), indicating a greater degree of dynamic heterogeneity. In summary, the results in Figures 11 and 12a demonstrate that a higher cohesive energy results in an overall increase in local molecular stiffness and a greater degree of dynamic heterogeneity.  $^{8,37}$  Moreover, we measure the probability distributions of  $1/\langle u^2 \rangle$  at the reduced temperature  $T/T_g =$ 

0.7 for all the systems with varying c and  $\varepsilon$ . The distributions collapse onto a universal curve reasonably, except for a weak deviation in the cross-linked system with c=0.23 and  $\varepsilon=1.2$  (Figure 12b). This near-universal distribution emphasizes the importance of  $T_{\rm g}$  in relation to understanding the fluctuations in the local molecular stiffness of cross-linked thermosets.

Dynamic heterogeneity describes the spatial—temporal fluctuations of local dynamics, which is commonly quantified by the non-Gaussian parameter,  $\alpha_2(t) = 3 \langle r^4(t) \rangle / (5 \langle r^2(t) \rangle^2) - 1$ , where r(t) is the displacement of a particle from its initial position.  $^{88,89}$   $\alpha_2(t)$  is a basic indicator of the timescale and strength of correlated motion, which quantifies the deviation of the displacement distribution from the Gaussian form expected in simple Brownian diffusion.  $^{33,35}$  The amplitude of the peak of  $\alpha_2(t)$  indicates the degree of spatial correlations of the motion. In particular, previous studies of both polymeric and metallic GF liquids have established that the peak position of  $\alpha_2(t)$ ,  $t^*$ , is related to the lifetime of mobile particle clusters, while the  $\tau_a$  corresponds to the lifetime of immobile particle clusters.  $^{35,90,91}$  It has been recognized that the  $t^*$  is a diffusion-related timescale and grows less rapidly than  $\tau_a$  implying a decoupling between the diffusion coefficient and structural relaxation.

Figure 13a shows the  $\alpha_2(t)$  at fixed temperature T=0.5 for systems with varying c and  $\varepsilon$ . As the  $\varepsilon$  increases, both the lifetime  $t^*$  of mobile particle clusters and the amplitude of the peak increase significantly, while the c has a relatively mild influence, which indicates that increasing  $\varepsilon$  or c leads to not

**Figure 13.** (a) Non-Gaussian parameter  $\alpha_2(t)$  as a function of time t for cross-linked networks with various cross-link density c and cohesive energy  $\varepsilon$ . As  $\varepsilon$  increases,  $\alpha_2(t)$  increases significantly with an increase in the mobile particle cluster lifetime, while c has a relatively mild influence. (b) Relationship between the non-Gaussian parameter peak time  $t^*$  and the structural relaxation time  $\tau_\alpha$  for cross-linked networks with varying c and  $\varepsilon$ . The dashed line indicates a fit to power-law relationship  $t^*/\tau_f = A(\tau_\alpha/\tau_f)^{1-\zeta}$ , where the fitting parameters  $(A, \zeta)$  are determined to be (1.42, 0.33).

only slower segmental dynamics but also a greater degree of dynamic heterogeneity, consistent with the variation of relaxation time and color maps of local stiffness. Such a trend was also reported in the linear polymer melts<sup>35</sup> and copolymers. <sup>10</sup> Fan *et al.*<sup>24</sup> explored the effect of molecular architecture on the dynamic heterogeneity based on star polymer melts, where the characteristic time and the amplitude of  $\alpha_2(t)$  increased significantly when the number of arms of the star polymer became larger.

As widely observed in the glass-forming polymer melts,  $^{32,33,35}$  the structure relaxation time  $\tau_{\alpha}$  exhibited a power-law relationship with the peak time of non-Gaussian parameter  $t^*$  well. Recently, Zhang et al.<sup>63</sup> explored the dynamic heterogeneity in Al-Sm metallic glass formers, where both the normalized peak time of non-Gaussian parameter  $t^*$ /  $\tau_{\rm f}$  and the normalized lifetime of mobile particle clusters  $\tau_{\rm M}/\tau_{\rm f}$ exhibited a power-law scaling relationship with the normalized structure relaxation time  $\tau_{\alpha}/\tau_{\rm f}$ . Here, we analyze the relationship between the  $t^*$  and  $\tau_{\alpha}$  both of which are normalized by the fast  $\beta$ -relaxation time at the onset temperature,  $\tau_{\rm f}^{-63}$  An apparent power-law relationship,  $t^*/\tau_f \sim (\tau_\alpha/\tau_f)^{1-\zeta}$ , is observed (Figure 13b), where the power exponent  $\zeta$  quantifies the extent to which the "Stokes-Einstein" relationship breaks down. The estimate of  $\zeta$  is about 0.33 in this work, consistent with that in Cu-Zr alloys <sup>91,92</sup> and linear polymer melts having varying chain stiffness <sup>32,33</sup> and cohesive energy. <sup>35</sup> The observed power-law relationship indicates a "decoupling" between the structural relaxation time and the diffusion coefficient timescale in our cross-linked thermosets. A similar decoupling between  $t^*$  and  $\tau_\alpha$  has been reported in various metallic and polymeric glass formers.  $^{90,91}$ 

We emphasize that our simplified model of cross-linking ignores correlations in the cross-link density that can arise from phase separation induced by inherent changes in the molecular mass of the components of the thermoset, from non-uniform distribution of the cross-linking agent, or from other methods of introducing cross-links such as photopolymerization. The rate of the cross-linking relative to the rate of induced phase separation can also be expected to influence the distribution of cross-links. Because of this complex situation, the properties of the cross-linked network having nominally the same cross-link density, composition, and postcuring temperature could well be different. This type of "memory effect" associated with the history of the cross-linking process has been discussed in connection with the nonlinear elastic properties of polymer networks.  $^{93}$  The similar effect was also observed in knotted ring polymers since the topological complexity of ring polymers depended on the thermodynamic conditions (temperature distance from the critical temperature of phase separation) on which the rings were formed.<sup>94</sup> Further simulations should then be made to explore how the specific type of cross-linking process, along with the thermal history and the rate of cross-linking, influences the ultimate dynamic and mechanical properties of cross-linked thermoset materials. In addition, for some rigid thermosets, new dynamics could crop up for high cross-link densities when the root-meansquared dimensions of the network chains become comparable to the polymer persistence length, thus making a competition of cross-linking with monomer packing. 57,95 In our work, we study the cross-linked thermosets with a wide range of crosslink density (i.e., from 20% to 98%) based on fully flexible short chains, where the maximum cross-link density corresponds to a nearly fully cross-linked structure. The relaxation

time increases significantly when the cross-link density becomes higher, because increasing the cross-link density tends to increase the effective rigidity of polymers. The topological rigidification effect has recently been quantified in ring polymers with increasing knot complexity<sup>23</sup> and in star polymers with an increasing number of arms. <sup>96</sup> We may expect this topological rigidification effect to become especially larger than the limit of "high cross-link density" where the root-mean-squared dimensions of the network chains become comparable to the polymer persistence length in the absence of cross-links. This high cross-link density regime also deserves a separate study since some thermoset materials can apparently have a high cross-link density.

## 4. CONCLUSIONS

In the present work, we employ a bead-spring CG model to systematically explore the combined effect of cross-link density and cohesive energy on the dynamics and mechanical properties for cross-linked thermosets. For cross-linked networks having a fixed cross-link density, the effect of cohesive energy on the thermodynamic properties (i.e., density  $\rho$ , reduced thermal expansion coefficient  $\alpha_p^*$ , and reduced isothermal compressibility  $\kappa_T^*$ ) can be nearly eliminated by a simple shift in the temperature and, thus, a change of the "effective temperature". It is found that the cohesive energy has a more significant influence on the relaxation dynamics than varying the cross-link density. The characteristic temperatures (i.e., the onset temperature  $T_A$ , the glass transition temperature  $T_{\varphi}$ , and the VFT critical temperature  $T_0$ ) increase nearly linearly with increasing cohesive energy. It is notable that the fragility parameters at the same time decrease with increasing cohesive energy strength, while they exhibit an opposite trend with increasing cross-link density. Remarkably, despite the competition between cohesive energy and cross-link density on fragility, the structural relaxation time for all the systems can be described well by the thermodynamic scaling.

The estimation of mechanical properties (i.e., shear modulus G and bulk modulus B) indicates that the cohesive energy and  $T_{g}$  are two important factors that control the moduli of crosslinked thermosetting polymers. We find that the Debye-Waller parameter  $\langle u^2 \rangle$  exhibits a good correlation with the mechanical properties, which is utilized to estimate the local molecular stiffness. The distribution of local molecular stiffness  $1/\langle u^2 \rangle$  and non-Gaussian parameter are evaluated to explore the combined effect of cross-link density and cohesive energy on the dynamic heterogeneity. Increasing cohesive energy results in a remarkably higher local molecular stiffness and a significantly greater degree of dynamic heterogeneity. However, when evaluating  $1/\langle u^2 \rangle$  at the same reduced temperature  $T/T_{g}$ , the distributions of  $1/\langle u^2 \rangle$  nearly reduce into a universal curve, demonstrating the importance of  $T_g$  in the dynamics of cross-linked thermosets with a wide range of cohesive energy and cross-link density. The findings of this present work provide physical insight into the essential role of cohesive interaction strength and cross-link density played in the relaxation dynamics and mechanical properties, which should be helpful in developing the structure-property relationships for the GF cross-linked thermoset and other relevant network materials.

#### <span id="page-12-0"></span>ASSOCIATED CONTENT

# **3** Supporting Information

The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c01719.

Estimation of thermodynamic properties (Figure S1); self-part of the intermediate scattering function (Figure S2); temperature dependence of structural relaxation time (Figure S3); relationship between local stiffness and structural relaxation time (Figure S4); estimation of local stiffness (Figure S5) (PDF)

#### AUTHOR INFORMATION

#### **Corresponding Authors**

Wenjie Xia – Department of Civil, Construction and Environmental Engineering, North Dakota State University, Fargo, North Dakota 58108, United States; ocid.org/0000-0001-7870-0128; Email: yfguo@bjtu.edu.cn

Yafang Guo — Department of Mechanics, School of Physical Science and Engineering, Beijing Jiaotong Uiversity, Beijing 100044, China; Email: jack.douglas@nist.gov

Jack F. Douglas — Materials Science and Engineering Division, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899, United States; ⊚ orcid.org/ 0000-0001-7290-2300; Email: wenjie.xia@ndsu.edu

#### Author

Xiangrui Zheng — Department of Mechanics, School of Physical Science and Engineering, Beijing Jiaotong Uiversity, Beijing 100044, China

Complete contact information is available at: https://pubs.acs.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c01719

#### Notes

The authors declare no competing financial interest.

# ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

X.Z. and Y.G. acknowledge the support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (grant no. 12172038). W.X. acknowledges the support from the U.S. Office of Naval Research (award no. N00014-22-1-2129) and the Department of Civil, Construction and Environmental Engineering and College of Engineering at North Dakota State University.

#### REFERENCES

- (1) Hayashi, M. Implantation of Recyclability and Healability into Cross-Linked Commercial Polymers by Applying the Vitrimer Concept. *Polymer* **2020**, *12*, 1322.
- (2) Tang, Y.; Xu, W.; Niu, S.; Zhang, Z.; Zhang, Y.; Jiang, Z. Crosslinked Dielectric Materials for High-Temperature Capacitive Energy Storage. J. Mater. Chem. A 2021, 9, 10000–10011.
- (3) Napolitano, S.; Glynos, E.; Tito, N. B. Glass Transition of Polymers in Bulk, Confined Geometries, and near Interfaces. *Rep. Prog. Phys.* **2017**, *80*, No. 036602.
- (4) Debenedetti, P. G.; Stillinger, F. H. Supercooled Liquids and the Glass Transition. *Nature* **2001**, *410*, 259–267.
- (5) Sauvant, V.; Halary, J. L. Improvement of the Performance of Epoxy-Amine Thermosets by Antiplasticizer-Induced Nano-Scale Phase Separation during Cure. *Compos. Sci. Technol.* **2002**, *62*, 481–486
- (6) Rana, D.; Sauvant, V.; Halary, J. L. Molecular Analysis of Yielding in Pure and Antiplasticized Epoxy-Amine Thermosets. *J. Mater. Sci.* **2002**, *37*, 5267–5274.
- (7) Morel, E.; Bellenger, V.; Bocquet, M.; Verdu, J. Structure-Properties Relationships for Densely Cross-Linked Epoxide-Amine

- Systems Based on Epoxide or Amine Mixtures. *J. Mater. Sci.* **1989**, *24*, 69–75.
- (8) Elder, R. M.; Long, T. R.; Bain, E. D.; Lenhart, J. L.; Sirk, T. W. Mechanics and Nanovoid Nucleation Dynamics: Effects of Polar Functionality in Glassy Polymer Networks. *Soft Matter* **2018**, *14*, 8895–8911.
- (9) Lee, A.; Mckenna, G. B. Effect of Crosslink Density on Physical Ageing of Epoxy Networks. *Polymer* 1988, 29, 1812–1817.
- (10) Kannurpatti, A. R.; Bowman, C. N. Structural Evolution of Dimethacrylate Networks Studied by Dielectric Spectroscopy. *Macromolecules* **1998**, *31*, 3311–3316.
- (11) Alves, N. M.; Gómez Ribelles, J. L.; Mano, J. F. Enthalpy Relaxation Studies in Polymethyl Methacrylate Networks with Different Crosslinking Degrees. *Polymer* **2005**, *46*, 491–504.
- (12) Casalini, R.; Roland, C. M. Effect of Crosslinking on the Secondary Relaxation in Polyvinylethylene. *J. Polym. Sci., Part B: Polym. Phys.* **2010**, 48, 582–587.
- (13) Casalini, R.; Corezzi, S.; Fioretto, D.; Livi, A.; Rolla, P. A. Unified Dielectric Description of the Dynamics of Polymeric Systems Undergoing Either Thermal or Chemical Vitrification. *Chem. Phys. Lett.* **1996**, 258, 470–476.
- (14) Corezzi, S.; Fioretto, D.; Rolla, P. Bond-Controlled Configurational Entropy Reduction in Chemical Vitrification. *Nature* **2002**, 420, 653–656.
- (15) Beiner, M.; Ngai, K. L. Interrelation between Primary and Secondary Relaxations in Polymerizing Systems Based on Epoxy Resins. *Macromolecules* **2005**, *38*, 7033–7042.
- (16) Sasaki, T.; Uchida, T.; Sakurai, K. Effect of Crosslink on the Characteristic Length of Glass Transition of Network Polymers. *J. Polym. Sci., Part B: Polym. Phys.* **2006**, *44*, 1958–1966.
- (17) Guo, J.; Simon, S. L. Effect of Crosslink Density on the Pressure Relaxation Response of Polycyanurate Networks. *J. Polym. Sci., Part B: Polym. Phys.* **2009**, 47, 2477–2486.
- (18) Guo, J.; Simon, S. L. Thermodynamic Scaling of Polymer Dynamics versus T T<sub>g</sub> Scaling. *J. Chem. Phys.* **2011**, *135*, No. 074901.
- (19) Agapov, A. L.; Novikov, V. N.; Hong, T.; Fan, F.; Sokolov, A. P. Surprising Temperature Scaling of Viscoelastic Properties in Polymers. *Macromolecules* **2018**, *51*, 4874–4881.
- (20) Kunal, K.; Robertson, C. G.; Pawlus, S.; Hahn, S. F.; Sokolov, A. P. Role of Chemical Structure in Fragility of Polymers: A Qualitative Picture. *Macromolecules* **2008**, *41*, 7232–7238.
- (21) Duarte, D. M.; Tu, W.; Dzienia, A.; Adrjanowicz, K. Study on the Effect of Side-Chain Group on the Segmental Dynamics of Selected Methacrylate Polymers at Ambient and High Pressures. *Polymer* **2019**, *183*, No. 121860.
- (22) Bronnikov, S.; Kostromin, S.; Asandulesa, M.; Podshivalov, A.; Timpu, D. Morphology, Structure, and Segmental Dynamics in Polyazomethine/Hybrid Carbon Nanofillers Composites. *Polym. Compos.* **2019**, *40*, 4638–4649.
- (23) Vargas-Lara, F.; Pazmiño Betancourt, B. A.; Douglas, J. F. Influence of Knot Complexity on Glass-Formation in Low Molecular Mass Ring Polymer Melts. *J. Chem. Phys.* **2019**, *150*, 101103.
- (24) Fan, J.; Emamy, H.; Chremos, A.; Douglas, J. F.; Starr, F. W. Dynamic Heterogeneity and Collective Motion in Star Polymer Melts. *J. Chem. Phys.* **2020**, *152*, No. 054904.
- (25) Zhang, W.; Douglas, J. F.; Chremos, A.; Starr, F. W. Structure and Dynamics of Star Polymer Films from Coarse-Grained Molecular Simulations. *Macromolecules* **2021**, *54*, 5344–5353.
- (26) Xia, W.; Song, J.; Hsu, D. D.; Keten, S. Side-Group Size Effects on Interfaces and Glass Formation in Supported Polymer Thin Films. *J. Chem. Phys.* **2017**, *146*, 203311.
- (27) Huang, J.-H.; Sun, D.-D.; Lu, R.-X. Glass Transition and Dynamics of Semiflexible Polymer Brushes. *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2021**, 23, 13895–13904.
- (28) Zhang, H.; Sun, D.-D.; Peng, Y.; Huang, J.-H.; Luo, M.-B. Diffusivity and Glass Transition of Polymer Chains in Polymer Nanocomposites. *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2019**, 21, 23209–23216.

- <span id="page-13-0"></span>(29) Riggleman, R. A.; Douglas, J. F.; de Pablo, J. J. [Antiplasticization](https://doi.org/10.1039/B915592A) and the Elastic Properties of Glass-Forming [Polymer](https://doi.org/10.1039/B915592A) Liquids. *Soft Matter* 2010, *6*, 292−304.
- (30) Starr, F. W.; Douglas, J. F. [Modifying](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.106.115702) Fragility and Collective Motion in Polymer Melts with [Nanoparticles.](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.106.115702) *Phys. Rev. Lett.* 2011, *106*, No. 115702.
- (31) Jia, X.-M.; Lin, W.-F.; Zhao, H.-Y.; Qian, H.-J.; Lu, Z.-Y. Supercooled Melt Structure and Dynamics of [Single-Chain](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0056293) Nanoparticles: A Computer [Simulation](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0056293) Study. *J. Chem. Phys.* 2021, *155*, No. 054901.
- (32) Xu, W.-S.; Douglas, J. F.; Xu, X. [Molecular](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c00731?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Dynamics Study of Glass [Formation](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c00731?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) in Polymer Melts with Varying Chain Stiffness. *Macromolecules* 2020, *53*, 4796−4809.
- (33) Pan, D.; Sun, Z.-Y. [Influence](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5052153) of Chain Stiffness on the Dynamical [Heterogeneity](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5052153) and Fragility of Polymer Melts. *J. Chem. Phys.* 2018, *149*, 234904.
- (34) Xu, W.-S.; Douglas, J. F.; Xu, X. Role of [Cohesive](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c01876?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Energy in Glass Formation of Polymers with and without Bending [Constraints.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c01876?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Macromolecules* 2020, *53*, 9678−9697.
- (35) Xu, W.-S.; Douglas, J. F.; Freed, K. F. [Influence](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b01504?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of Cohesive Energy on Relaxation in a Model [Glass-Forming](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b01504?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Polymer Melt. *Macromolecules* 2016, *49*, 8355−8370.
- (36) Xu, W.-S.; Douglas, J. F.; Freed, K. F. [Influence](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b01503?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of Cohesive Energy on the [Thermodynamic](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b01503?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Properties of a Model Glass-Forming [Polymer](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b01503?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Melt. *Macromolecules* 2016, *49*, 8341−8354.
- (37) Alesadi, A.; Xia, W. [Understanding](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c00067?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) the Role of Cohesive Interaction in [Mechanical](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c00067?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Behavior of a Glassy Polymer. *Macromolecules* 2020, *53*, 2754−2763.
- (38) McKenzie-Smith, T. Q.; Douglas, J. F.; Starr, F. W. [Explaining](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.127.277802) the Sensitivity of Polymer Segmental [Relaxation](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.127.277802) to Additive Size Based on the [Localization](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.127.277802) Model. *Phys. Rev. Lett.* 2021, *127*, No. 277802.
- (39) Lesser, A. J.; Calzia, K. J. Molecular [Parameters](https://doi.org/10.1002/polb.20090) Governing the Yield Response of [Epoxy-Based](https://doi.org/10.1002/polb.20090) Glassy Networks. *J. Polym. Sci., Part B: Polym. Phys.* 2004, *42*, 2050−2056.
- (40) Müller-Plathe, F. [Coarse-Graining](https://doi.org/10.1002/1439-7641(20020916)3:9<754::AID-CPHC754>3.0.CO;2-U) in Polymer Simulation: From the Atomistic to the [Mesoscopic](https://doi.org/10.1002/1439-7641(20020916)3:9<754::AID-CPHC754>3.0.CO;2-U) Scale and Back. *ChemPhysChem* 2002, *3*, 754−769.
- (41) Brini, E.; Algaer, E. A.; Ganguly, P.; Li, C.; Rodríguez-Ropero, F.; van der Vegt, N. F. A. Systematic [Coarse-Graining](https://doi.org/10.1039/C2SM27201F) Methods for Soft Matter [Simulations](https://doi.org/10.1039/C2SM27201F) − a Review. *Soft Matter* 2013, *9*, 2108−2119.
- (42) Xia, W.; Song, J.; Jeong, C.; Hsu, D. D.; Phelan, F. R., Jr.; Douglas, J. F.; Keten, S. [Energy-Renormalization](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.7b01717?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) for Achieving Temperature Transferable [Coarse-Graining](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.7b01717?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of Polymer Dynamics. *Macromolecules* 2017, *50*, 8787−8796.
- (43) Xia, W.; Song, J.; Hansoge, N. K.; Phelan, F. R., Jr.; Keten, S.; Douglas, J. F. Energy Renormalization for [Coarse-Graining](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcb.8b00321?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) the Dynamics of a Model [Glass-Forming](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcb.8b00321?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Liquid. *J. Phys. Chem. B* 2018, *122*, 2040−2045.
- (44) Xia, W.; Hansoge, N. K.; Xu, W.-S.; Phelan, F. R., Jr.; Keten, S.; Douglas, J. F. Energy Renormalization for [Coarse-Graining](https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aav4683) Polymers Having Different Segmental [Structures.](https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aav4683) *Sci. Adv.* 2019, *5*, No. eaav4683.
- (45) Wang, Y.; Li, Z.; Niu, K.; Xia, W. Energy [Renormalization](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2022.125159) for Coarse-Graining of [Thermomechanical](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2022.125159) Behaviors of Conjugated [Polymer.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2022.125159) *Polymer* 2022, *256*, No. 125159.
- (46) Giuntoli, A.; Hansoge, N. K.; van Beek, A.; Meng, Z.; Chen, W.; Keten, S. Systematic [Coarse-Graining](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-021-00634-1) of Epoxy Resins with Machine [Learning-Informed](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-021-00634-1) Energy Renormalization. *npj Comput. Mater.* 2021, *7*, 1.
- (47) Zheng, X.; Guo, Y.; Douglas, J. F.; Xia, W. [Understanding](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0099322) the Role of [Cross-Link](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0099322) Density in the Segmental Dynamics and Elastic Properties of [Cross-Linked](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0099322) Thermosets. *J. Chem. Phys.* 2022, *157*, No. 064901.
- (48) Kremer, K.; Grest, G. S. Dynamics of [Entangled](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.458541) Linear Polymer Melts: A [Molecular-Dynamics](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.458541) Simulation. *J. Chem. Phys.* 1990, *92*, 5057−5086.

- (49) Xu, W.-S.; Freed, K. F. [Influence](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma501581u?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of Cohesive Energy and Chain Stiffness on Polymer Glass [Formation.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma501581u?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Macromolecules* 2014, *47*, 6990−6997.
- (50) Wu, J.-B.; Li, S.-J.; Liu, H.; Qian, H.-J.; Lu, Z.-Y. [Dynamics](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CP01766F) and Reaction Kinetics of [Coarse-Grained](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CP01766F) Bulk Vitrimers: A Molecular [Dynamics](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CP01766F) Study. *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* 2019, *21*, 13258−13267.
- (51) Thompson, A. P.; Metin Aktulga, H.; Berger, R.; Bolintineanu, D. S.; Michael Brown, W.; Crozier, P. S.; Int Veld, P. J.; Kohlmeyer, A.; Moore, S. G.; Nguyen, T. D.; Shan, R.; Stevens, M. J.; Tranchida, J.; Trott, C.; Plimpton, S. J. LAMMPS - a Flexible [Simulation](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2021.108171) Tool for [Particle-Based](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2021.108171) Materials Modeling at the Atomic, Meso, and [Continuum](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2021.108171) Scales. *Comput. Phys. Commun.* 2022, *271*, No. 108171.
- (52) Varshney, V.; Patnaik, S. S.; Roy, A. K.; Farmer, B. L. [A](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma801153e?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Molecular Dynamics Study of Epoxy-Based Networks: [Cross-Linking](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma801153e?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Procedure and Prediction of Molecular and Material [Properties.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma801153e?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Macromolecules* 2008, *41*, 6837−6842.
- (53) Shokuhfar, A.; Arab, B. The Effect of Cross Linking [Density](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00894-013-1906-9) on the [Mechanical](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00894-013-1906-9) Properties and Structure of the Epoxy Polymers: Molecular Dynamics [Simulation.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00894-013-1906-9) *J. Mol. Model.* 2013, *19*, 3719−3731.
- (54) Bandyopadhyay, A.; Valavala, P. K.; Clancy, T. C.; Wise, K. E.; Odegard, G. M. Molecular Modeling of [Crosslinked](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2011.03.052) Epoxy Polymers: The Effect of Crosslink Density on [Thermomechanical](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2011.03.052) Properties. *Polymer* 2011, *52*, 2445−2452.
- (55) Simon, S. L.; Mckenna, G. B.; Sindt, O. [Modeling](https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1097-4628(20000425)76:4<495::AID-APP7>3.0.CO;2-B) the Evolution of the Dynamic Mechanical Properties of a [Commercial](https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1097-4628(20000425)76:4<495::AID-APP7>3.0.CO;2-B) Epoxy during Cure after [Gelation.](https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1097-4628(20000425)76:4<495::AID-APP7>3.0.CO;2-B) *J. Appl. Polym. Sci.* 2000, *76*, 495−508.
- (56) Elder, R. M.; Andzelm, J. W.; Sirk, T. W. A [Molecular](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cplett.2015.07.058) Simulation Study of the Glass Transition of [Cross-Linked](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cplett.2015.07.058) Poly- [\(Dicyclopentadiene\)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cplett.2015.07.058) Networks. *Chem. Phys. Lett.* 2015, *637*, 103− 109.
- (57) Gupta, V. B.; Brahatheeswaran, C. [Molecular](https://doi.org/10.1016/0032-3861(91)90379-W) Packing and Free Volume in [Crosslinked](https://doi.org/10.1016/0032-3861(91)90379-W) Epoxy Networks. *Polymer* 1991, *32*, 1875− 1884.
- (58) Gupta, V. B.; Drzal, L. T.; Lee, C. Y.; Rich, M. J. [The](https://doi.org/10.1002/pen.760251305) [Temperature-Dependence](https://doi.org/10.1002/pen.760251305) of Some Mechanical Properties of a Cured Epoxy Resin [System.](https://doi.org/10.1002/pen.760251305) *Polym. Eng. Sci.* 1985, *25*, 812−823.
- (59) Stukalin, E. B.; Douglas, J. F.; Freed, K. F. [Plasticization](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3304738) and [Antiplasticization](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3304738) of Polymer Melts Diluted by Low Molar Mass [Species.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3304738) *J. Chem. Phys.* 2010, *132*, No. 084504.
- (60) Xu, W.-S.; Douglas, J. F.; Sun, Z.-Y. Polymer Glass [Formation:](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c02740?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Role of Activation Free Energy, [Configurational](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c02740?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Entropy, and [Collective](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c02740?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Motion. *Macromolecules* 2021, *54*, 3001−3033.
- (61) Dudowicz, J.; Freed, K. F.; Douglas, J. F. [Generalized](https://doi.org/10.1002/9780470238080.ch3) Entropy Theory of Polymer Glass [Formation.](https://doi.org/10.1002/9780470238080.ch3) *Adv. Chem. Phys.* 2008, *137*, 125−222.
- (62) Giuntoli, A.; Puosi, F.; Leporini, D.; Starr, F. W.; Douglas, J. F. Predictive Relation for the *α*-Relaxation Time of a [Coarse-Grained](https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aaz0777) [Polymer](https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aaz0777) Melt under Steady Shear. *Sci. Adv.* 2020, *6*, No. eaaz0777.
- (63) Zhang, H.; Wang, X.; Yu, H.-B.; Douglas, J. F. [Dynamic](https://doi.org/10.1140/epje/s10189-021-00060-7) [Heterogeneity,](https://doi.org/10.1140/epje/s10189-021-00060-7) Cooperative Motion, and Johari−Goldstein *β*-Relaxation in a Metallic [Glass-Forming](https://doi.org/10.1140/epje/s10189-021-00060-7) Material Exhibiting a [Fragile-to-Strong](https://doi.org/10.1140/epje/s10189-021-00060-7) Transition. *Eur. Phys. J. E: Soft Matter Biol. Phys.* 2021, *44*, 56.
- (64) Pazmiño Betancourt, B. A.; Starr, F. W.; Douglas, J. F. [String](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5009442)like Collective Motion in the *α*- and *β*-Relaxation of a [Coarse-Grained](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5009442) [Polymer](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5009442) Melt. *J. Chem. Phys.* 2018, *148*, 104508.
- (65) Douglas, J. F.; Xu, W.-S. [Equation](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.1c00075?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of State and Entropy Theory Approach to [Thermodynamic](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.1c00075?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Scaling in Polymeric Glass-Forming [Liquids.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.1c00075?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Macromolecules* 2021, *54*, 3247−3269.
- (66) Stukalin, E. B.; Douglas, J. F.; Freed, K. F. [Application](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3216109) of the Entropy Theory of Glass [Formation](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3216109) to Poly(*α*-Olefins). *J. Chem. Phys.* 2009, *131*, 114905.
- (67) Mangalara, J. H.; Marvin, M. D.; Wiener, N. R.; Mackura, M. E.; Simmons, D. S. Does Fragility of Glass Formation [Determine](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4976521) the Strength of [Tg-Nanoconfinement](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4976521) Effects? *J. Chem. Phys.* 2017, *146*, 104902.
- (68) Roland, C. M. [Constraints](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma00093a027?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) on Local Segmental Motion in [Poly\(Vinylethylene\)](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma00093a027?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Networks. *Macromolecules* 1994, *27*, 4242−4247.

- <span id="page-14-0"></span>(69) Dalle-Ferrier, C.; Simon, S.; Zheng, W.; Badrinarayanan, P.; Fennell, T.; Frick, B.; Zanotti, J. M.; Alba-Simionesco, C. Consequence of Excess [Configurational](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.103.185702) Entropy on Fragility: The Case of a [Polymer-Oligomer](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.103.185702) Blend. *Phys. Rev. Lett.* 2009, *103*, No. 185702.
- (70) Lopez, E.; Koh, Y. P.; Zapata-Hincapie, J. A.; Simon, S. L. [Composition-Dependent](https://doi.org/10.1002/pen.26018) Glass Transition Temperature in Mixtures: Evaluation of [Configurational](https://doi.org/10.1002/pen.26018) Entropy Models. *Polym. Eng. Sci.* 2022, *62*, 2435−2445.
- (71) Riggleman, R. A.; Douglas, J. F.; de Pablo, J. J. Tuning [Polymer](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.2742382) Melt Fragility with [Antiplasticizer](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.2742382) Additives. *J. Chem. Phys.* 2007, *126*, 234903.
- (72) Roland, C. M. Relaxation [Phenomena](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma101649u?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) in Vitrifying Polymers and [Molecular](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma101649u?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Liquids. *Macromolecules* 2010, *43*, 7875−7890.
- (73) Dreyfus, C.; Aouadi, A.; Gapinski, J.; Matos-Lopes, M.; Steffen, W.; Patkowski, A.; Pick, R. M. [Temperature](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevE.68.011204) and Pressure Study of Brillouin Transverse Modes in the Organic [Glass-Forming](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevE.68.011204) Liquid [Orthoterphenyl.](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevE.68.011204) *Phys. Rev. E* 2003, *68*, No. 011204.
- (74) Dreyfus, C.; Le Grand, A.; Gapinski, J.; Steffen, W.; Patkowski, A. Scaling the *α*-Relaxation Time of [Supercooled](https://doi.org/10.1140/epjb/e2004-00386-3) Fragile Organic [Liquids.](https://doi.org/10.1140/epjb/e2004-00386-3) *Eur. Phys. J. B* 2004, *42*, 309−319.
- (75) Roland, C. M.; Hensel-Bielowka, S.; Paluch, M.; Casalini, R. Supercooled Dynamics of [Glass-Forming](https://doi.org/10.1088/0034-4885/68/6/R03) Liquids and Polymers under [Hydrostatic](https://doi.org/10.1088/0034-4885/68/6/R03) Pressure. *Rep. Prog. Phys.* 2005, *68*, 1405−1478.
- (76) Douglas, J. F.; Pazmino Betancourt, B. A.; Tong, X.; Zhang, H. [Localization](https://doi.org/10.1088/1742-5468/2016/05/054048) Model Description of Diffusion and Structural Relaxation in [Glass-Forming](https://doi.org/10.1088/1742-5468/2016/05/054048) Cu−Zr Alloys. *J. Stat. Mech.* 2016, *2016*, No. 054048.
- (77) Elder, R. M.; Forster, A. L.; Krishnamurthy, A.; Dennis, J. M.; Akiba, H.; Yamamuro, O.; Ito, K.; Evans, K. M.; Soles, C.; Sirk, T. W. Relative Effects of Polymer [Composition](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2SM00698G) and Sample Preparation on Glass [Dynamics.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2SM00698G) *Soft Matter* 2022, *18*, 6511−6516.
- (78) Wang, X.; Zhang, H.; Douglas, J. F. The [Initiation](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0069729) of Shear Band [Formation](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0069729) in Deformed Metallic Glasses from Soft Localized [Domains.](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0069729) *J. Chem. Phys.* 2021, *155*, 204504.
- (79) Sakumichi, N.; Yoshikawa, Y.; Sakai, T. Linear [Elasticity](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41428-021-00529-4) of Polymer Gels in Terms of Negative Energy [Elasticity.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41428-021-00529-4) *Polym. J.* 2021, *53*, 1293−1303.
- (80) Treloar, L. R. G. Rubber [Elasticity.](https://doi.org/10.1080/00107517108205104) *Contemp. Phys.* 1971, *12*, 33−56.
- (81) Guo, J.; Simon, S. L. [Pressure-Volume-Temperature](https://doi.org/10.1002/polb.22155) Behavior of Two [Polycyanurate](https://doi.org/10.1002/polb.22155) Networks. *J. Polym. Sci., Part B: Polym. Phys.* 2010, *48*, 2509−2517.
- (82) Lin, D. C.; Douglas, J. F.; Horkay, F. [Development](https://doi.org/10.1039/b925219n) of Minimal Models of the Elastic [Properties](https://doi.org/10.1039/b925219n) of Flexible and Stiff Polymer Networks with Permanent and [Thermoreversible](https://doi.org/10.1039/b925219n) Cross-Links. *Soft Matter* 2010, *6*, 3548−3561.
- (83) Peleg, M. Mapping the [Stiffness-Temperature-Moisture](https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00369074) [Relationship](https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00369074) of Solid Biomaterials at and around Their Glass [Transition.](https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00369074) *Rheol. Acta* 1993, *32*, 575−580.
- (84) Nakanishi, S.; Yoshikawa, H.; Shoji, S.; Sekkat, Z.; Kawata, S. Size Dependence of Transition [Temperature](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp800453p?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) in Polymer Nanowires. *J. Phys. Chem. B* 2008, *112*, 3586−3589.
- (85) Puosi, F.; Leporini, D. The Kinetic [Fragility](https://doi.org/10.1140/epje/i2015-15087-2) of Liquids as [Manifestation](https://doi.org/10.1140/epje/i2015-15087-2) of the Elastic Softening. *Eur. Phys. J. E: Soft Matter Biol. Phys.* 2015, *38*, 87.
- (86) Zhang, H.; Wang, X.; Yu, H.-B.; Douglas, J. F. Fast [Dynamics](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0039162) in a Model Metallic [Glass-Forming](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0039162) Material. *J. Chem. Phys.* 2021, *154*, No. 084505.
- (87) Zhang, W.; Starr, F. W.; Douglas, J. F. [Activation](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0064866) Free Energy Gradient Controls [Interfacial](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0064866) Mobility Gradient in Thin Polymer [Films.](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0064866) *J. Chem. Phys.* 2021, *155*, 174901.
- (88) Kanaya, T.; Tsukushi, I.; Kaji, K.; Gabrys, B.; Bennington, S. M. [Heterogeneity](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0022-3093(98)00644-9) of Amorphous Polymers with Various Fragility Indices as Studied in Terms of [Non-Gaussian](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0022-3093(98)00644-9) Parameter. *J. Non-Cryst. Solids* 1998, *235-237*, 212−218.
- (89) Inoue, R.; Kanaya, T.; Nishida, K.; Tsukushi, I.; Taylor, J.; Levett, S.; Gabrys, B. J. Dynamic Anisotropy and [Heterogeneity](https://doi.org/10.1140/epje/i2007-10210-8) of

- [Polystyrene](https://doi.org/10.1140/epje/i2007-10210-8) Thin Films as Studied by Inelastic Neutron Scattering. *Eur. Phys. J. E: Soft Matter Biol. Phys.* 2007, *24*, 55−60.
- (90) Starr, F. W.; Douglas, J. F.; Sastry, S. The [Relationship](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4790138) of Dynamical [Heterogeneity](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4790138) to the Adam-Gibbs and Random First-Order Transition Theories of Glass [Formation.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4790138) *J. Chem. Phys.* 2013, *138*, 12A541.
- (91) Wang, X.; Xu, W.-S.; Zhang, H.; Douglas, J. F. [Universal](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5125641) Nature of Dynamic Heterogeneity in [Glass-Forming](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5125641) Liquids: A Comparative Study of Metallic and Polymeric [Glass-Forming](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5125641) Liquids. *J. Chem. Phys.* 2019, *151*, 184503.
- (92) Zhang, H.; Zhong, C.; Douglas, J. F.; Wang, X.; Cao, Q.; Zhang, D.; Jiang, J.-Z. Role of [String-like](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4918807) Collective Atomic Motion on Diffusion and Structural [Relaxation](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4918807) in Glass Forming Cu-Zr [Alloys.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4918807) *J. Chem. Phys.* 2015, *142*, 164506.
- (93) Douglas, J. F. [Influence](https://doi.org/10.1002/masy.201200098) of Chain Structure and Swelling on the Elasticity of Rubbery Materials: [Localization](https://doi.org/10.1002/masy.201200098) Model Description. *Macromol. Symp.* 2013, *329*, 87−100.
- (94) Vargas-Lara, F.; Hassan, A. M.; Mansfield, M. L.; Douglas, J. F. Knot Energy, [Complexity,](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-12461-w) and Mobility of Knotted Polymers. *Sci. Rep.* 2017, *7*, 13374.
- (95) Bellenger, V.; Dhaoui, W.; Morel, E.; Verdu, J. [Packing](https://doi.org/10.1002/app.1988.070350301) Density of the [Amine-Crosslinked](https://doi.org/10.1002/app.1988.070350301) Stoichiometric Epoxy Networks. *J. Appl. Polym. Sci.* 1988, *35*, 563−571.
- (96) Vargas-Lara, F.; Pazmiño Betancourt, B. A.; Douglas, J. F. [Communication:](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5048937) A Comparison between the Solution Properties of Knotted Ring and Star [Polymers.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5048937) *J. Chem. Phys.* 2018, *149*, 161101.
- (97) Fitz, B. D.; Mijovic, J. [Segmental](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma981937b?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Dynamics in Poly- [\(Methylphenylsiloxane\)](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma981937b?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Networks by Dielectric Relaxation Spectros[copy.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma981937b?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Macromolecules* 1999, *32* (10), 3518−3527.