# Materials by Design for Stiff and Tough Hairy Nanoparticle Assemblies

Nitin K. Hansoge, Tianyu Huang, Robert Sinko, Wenjie Xia, Wenjie Wei Chen, and Sinan Keten\*,†,||,⊥

Supporting Information

Downloaded via MASSACHUSETTS INST OF TECHNOLOGY on February 16, 2026 at 16:47:11 (UTC) See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles.

ABSTRACT: Matrix-free polymer-grafted nanocrystals, called assembled hairy nanoparticles (aHNPs), can significantly enhance the thermomechanical performance of nanocomposites by overcoming nanoparticle dispersion challenges and achieving stronger interfacial interactions through grafted polymer chains. However, effective strategies to improve both the mechanical stiffness and toughness of aHNPs are lacking given the general conflicting nature of these two properties and the large number of molecular parameters involved in the design of

aHNPs. Here, we propose a computational framework that combines multiresponse Gaussian process metamodeling and coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations to establish design strategies for achieving optimal mechanical properties of aHNPs within a parametric space. Taking poly(methyl methacrylate) grafted to high-aspect-ratio cellulose nanocrystals as a model nanocomposite, our multiobjective design optimization framework reveals that the polymer chain length and grafting density are the main influencing factors governing the mechanical properties of aHNPs, in comparison to the nanoparticle size and the polymer-nanoparticle interfacial interactions. In particular, the Pareto frontier, that marks the upper bound of mechanical properties within the design parameter space, can be achieved when the weight percentage of nanoparticles is above around 60% and the grafted chains exceed the critical length scale governing transition into the semidilute brush regime. We show that theoretical scaling relationships derived from the Daoud-Cotton model capture the dependence of the critical length scale on graft density and nanoparticle size. Our established modeling framework provides valuable insights into the mechanical behavior of these hairy nanoparticle assemblies at the molecular level and allows us to establish guidelines for nanocomposite design.

KEYWORDS: assembled hairy nanoparticles, coarse-grained molecular dynamics, multiresponse Gaussian process modeling, mechanical properties, Pareto frontier

esearch into polymer nanocomposites<sup>1–5</sup> over the past few decades has resulted in numerous studies showing that introduction of small fraction of nanoparticles into polymers can significantly enhance the stiffness, toughness, and strength of the composite among other properties.<sup>6-8</sup> Mechanical properties of these nanocomposites are dependent on how well the particles are dispersed within the matrix. This requires tuning relative interfacial energies while not adversely affecting interphase properties, which is challenging. Matrix-free self-assembly of polymer-grafted nanoparticles could overcome this issue, leading to composites with relatively regular spacing between particles. The emergent properties of so-called assembled hairy nanoparticles (aHNPs)<sup>12</sup> are promising because better structural order allows functional and mechanical properties to be tailored more accurately, 13 and higher loading ratios can be achieved. 14,15 In these assembled systems, the grafted chains themselves form the

Received: April 2, 2018 Accepted: July 5, 2018 Published: July 5, 2018

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>†</sup>Department of Mechanical Engineering, Northwestern University, 2145 Sheridan Road, Evanston, Illinois 60208-3109, United States

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>‡</sup>Department of Mechanical Engineering, Northern Illinois University, 590 Garden Road, DeKalb, Illinois 60115, United States <sup>§</sup>Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, North Dakota State University, 1410 14th Avenue N, Fargo, North Dakota 58105, United States

Center for Hierarchical Materials Design, Northwestern University, 2205 Tech Drive, Evanston, Illinois 60208-3109, United States <sup>1</sup>Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Northwestern University, 2145 Sheridan Road, Evanston, Illinois 60208-3109, United States

<span id="page-1-0"></span>Figure 1. Schematic of all-atomistic structures and coarse-grained (CG) models for (a) cellulose and (b) PMMA. Two glucose monomers in the cellulose are modeled as one CG bead (green) with the force center at the center of mass. The backbone (blue) and side chain (purple) in CG PMMA is represented by two different beads. (c) Snapshot of the initial system consisting of four PMMA-grafted CNCs where the polymer is grown from the surface of the CNC using a random walk algorithm. (d) Snapshot of the system after carrying out annealing and equilibration steps.

"matrix" phase and the nanoparticles serve as both a reinforcing phase and tethering points for the polymer chains. Previous studies on aHNP films have shown that the Young's modulus of polymer-grafted silica nanoparticles is greatly influenced by the cohesive interactions between the polymer chains. 14,15 Their fracture toughness obtained from nanoindentation measurement increases substantially beyond a critical degree of polymerization to values that are close to neat glassy polymers. It has also been observed that the toughening effect due to the degree of polymerization decreases with larger particle sizes, which has been attributed to the increased dimensions of interstitial regions that reduce the entanglement density.<sup>15</sup> Although there exist qualitative guidelines relating parameters (e.g., chain length and nanoparticle size) to the mechanical properties, currently, a robust design framework to optimize the mechanical properties of these hairy nanoparticle assemblies within a defined parametric space is still missing in the literature.

Much of the earlier work on aHNPs focused on spherical nanoparticles such as silica, although better mechanical properties can be expected from high-aspect-ratio nanoparticles. Among possible filler candidates, cellulose nanocrystal (CNC) extracted from natural sources (e.g., wood, bacteria, and tunicates) has come under the spotlight as transparent, eco-friendly, biocompatible, versatile building blocks for structural applications. 20-26 Specifically, CNCs have a very high axial elastic modulus that is comparable to Kevlar,<sup>27</sup> high transparency, high aspect ratio (~10-100),<sup>21</sup> and relatively low density. Reactive groups (i.e., -OH) on CNC surfaces<sup>28</sup> allow functionalization<sup>29-31</sup> and polymer grafting<sup>32,33</sup> to achieve tunable and multifunctional properties. Earlier studies have shown improvement in storage<sup>34</sup> and elastic modulus<sup>35</sup> of nanocomposites prepared using CNCs and poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA), which is one of the most commonly used polymers in nanocomposites owing to its low density and excellent mechanical and optical properties.<sup>36</sup> However, even narrowing the design space to this choice of polymer and nanoparticle combination, the design of a nanocomposite based on molecular principles in a predictive fashion is still challenging, as it requires wide parametric studies that are prohibitively costly to carry out. Theoretically, physics-based scaling relations such as those based on the Daoud-Cotton (DC) model<sup>37</sup> exist to make qualitative deductions on chain structure, but empirical parameters still need to be determined experimentally. While molecular dynamics (MD) simulations have been employed to study

structural<sup>38</sup> and conformational<sup>39</sup> properties and self-assembly<sup>40,41</sup> of polymer-grafted nanoparticles, correlating molecular design parameters with mechanical properties is challenging in this case due to the computational cost and spatiotemporal limitations. Recent systematic investigations of aHNPs have provided valuable insights into their mechanical properties, even if they involve some inferences of modulus and toughness from nanoindentation<sup>14,15</sup> or buckling methods.<sup>13</sup> Our present study aims to establish a simulation-based material-by-design framework for predicting mechanical properties of aHNPs.

In mechanical design of a nanocomposite, the objective often involves optimizing the material's properties by efficiently searching for the best combination of design variables, such as nanoparticle size, polymer chain length, etc. 42-44 Here we explore the mechanical properties of PMMAgrafted CNCs as a model aHNP system as shown in Figure 1. We combine two recently developed computational materials design tools for efficient exploration of the parametric space. First, we take advantage of chemistry-specific thermomechanical coarse-grained (CG) modeling approaches that we have recently established for PMMA and other polymers. 45-48 Our CG modeling captures key chemical details such as side-group size and dynamics as well as basic dynamic and mechanical properties.<sup>49</sup> This allows us to extend the length and time scales of our simulations beyond all-atom MD. 45-48 We acknowledge that despite the use of CG-MD, it is still infeasible to explore a broad parametric range in the design space. Thus, we use a second computational design tool to alleviate this problem, namely, metamodels informed from our CG-MD simulations to serve as a computationally inexpensive surrogate. Metamodel-based design optimization (MBDO) is a useful framework that can be used in conjunction with computationally intensive simulations. 50-52 A general overview of the CG-MD simulations and MBDO is presented in the Methods section. We refer the readers to former MBDO frameworks that have been successfully applied to the design of various engineering and material systems. 53-55

In this study, we combine MBDO with CG modeling to provide design strategies for the optimal mechanical properties of aHNP systems in the transverse loading direction. We aim to establish a computational framework to evaluate the mechanical properties of aHNPs, and for this purpose the transverse properties are much more manageable. The characterization of longitudinal (along the CNC axis) properties is a much more involved investigation that requires a thorough discussion of the shear-lag mechanisms involved,

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 2. (a) Young's modulus vs toughness obtained from the metamodel. Pareto frontier obtained by sampling one million input parameters over the entire design space. (b) 100 initial CG-MD designs (blue dots) are used to build the metamodel. Using the metamodel, a Pareto frontier (red curve) is obtained. Seven random points from the Pareto curve are chosen (purple squares) and tested by running CG-MD simulations (green diamonds). Comparison of (c) Young's modulus and (d) toughness obtained from the metamodel and CG-MD simulations. The error bars represent a 95% confidence interval.

size effects, and strain localization, among many other features that govern toughness in such brick-and-mortar type systems. S6,57 Focusing on transverse properties alone, we propose a multiobjective MBDO framework to uncover tradeoffs offered by four key material design parameters [i.e., chain length (N), grafting density  $(\sigma)$ , polymer—NP interaction strength  $(\varepsilon_{\rm pnp})$ , and NP edge length  $(l_{\rm np})$  with the ultimate goal of optimizing the transverse elastic modulus and toughness of the aHNPs. Statistical sensitivity analysis (SSA) of the metamodel is carried out to further understand the relationship between each of those parameters and the mechanical behavior of the investigated system. A detailed statistical and conformation analysis of the grafted chains is superposed upon Ashby design plots to establish design strategies.

#### **RESULTS AND DISCUSSION**

In this section, we first validate the mechanical property predictions from the metamodel by comparing the results to those from the CG-MD simulations. We then systematically explore the effects of polymer chain length (N), grafting density  $(\sigma)$ , polymer—NP interaction strength  $(\varepsilon_{\rm pnp})$ , and the NP edge length  $(l_{\rm np})$  on the elastic modulus and toughness of the material system. Further, we provide scaling arguments to explain how polymer chain conformation regimes dictated by the design parameters relate to the mechanical properties. Finally, we evaluate the role of weight % of NP in obtaining the optimal properties.

First, we present an analysis of the accuracy of the metamodel by obtaining error estimates and validating points on the Pareto frontier, which marks the upper bound of the mechanical properties. We observe a good correlation between

the modulus and toughness predicted by the metamodel and CG-MD simulations (Supplementary Figure S1). We find that the leave-one-out cross-validation error percentage obtained from the metamodel (see Methods) is 10.46% and 15.26% for Young's modulus and toughness, respectively. These error percentages are reasonably small, as they are generally within the standard deviations of property measurements from experiments or MD simulations. 34,58,59 This error analysis is necessary to validate the metamodel's ability to capture the input-output relationships based on CG-MD data and also to ensure that the predictions of nanocomposite properties within the design bounds are accurate. Relative to CG-MD, the metamodel greatly expedites evaluating outputs for a given set of input parameters, without substantial loss in accuracy. Based on benchmark calculations, we estimate that generating a data point via the metamodel as opposed to CG-MD is about 3 to 4 orders of magnitude faster computationally and 6 to 7 orders of magnitude faster than an all-atom MD simulation of an equivalent system. Using this metamodeling approach, systems with a higher number of design parameters can also be investigated. This would require a much larger design of experiments, i.e., more simulations to train the metamodel. However, for such systems, dimension reduction techniques such as statistical sensitivity analysis (see Methods section) can be used to screen out unimportant factors and reduce the total number of parameters. Bostanabad et al.<sup>60</sup> have shown that the Gaussian process metamodel can be efficiently used for problems with a dimensionality of up to 15. Since the metamodel consists mainly of mathematical equations with parameters estimated based on the simulations, the dramatic speedup for analyzing such systems will be similar to what is observed here.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 3. Young's modulus vs toughness for the NP-polymer nanocomposite colored by (a) chain length of polymer N, (b) grafting density  $\sigma$ , (c) polymer-NP interaction strength  $\varepsilon_{pnp}$ , and (d) NP edge length  $l_{np}$ . The insets show the distribution of each parameter that lies on the Pareto curve.

Figure 2a shows the Pareto frontier marked as a red curve, which is obtained by sampling the design space with one million sets of input parameters using the metamodel. For each point on the frontier, there is no other combination of input design parameters (within the bounds studied) that can achieve higher toughness without compromising the stiffness, or vice versa. As a further validation of our metamodel, we check the accuracy of the predicted Pareto frontier at seven random points on the curve. Input parameters corresponding to these points are summarized in Supplementary Table S1. These points are chosen such that they cover the wide range of the Pareto curve (purple squares in Figure 2b). We note that these new runs are not used in constructing the metamodel and can thus independently serve as validation points. Figure 2c and d compare the modulus and the toughness values obtained from the metamodel and CG-MD simulations on the Pareto frontier. The metamodel also gives a mean square error for each prediction, which is used to compute the confidence interval. The CG-MD results are largely consistent with the metamodel prediction. The trend of decreasing modulus and increasing toughness as we parse the curve left to right is well captured by the metamodel. Impressively, considering the error in both simulations and metamodel, all of the points obtained seem to be in agreement and within the confidence intervals. We note that CG-MD has some variation in the results especially for predicting toughness in cases where large strains due to necking are observed. Incorporating data from multiple CG-MD simulations to build the metamodel will improve the confidence interval prediction. Despite having a highly nonlinear trend in the input-output relationship (Supplementary Figure S2), the metamodel predictions are quite robust. Hence, it is computationally efficient to use the metamodel for further analysis.

Having validated the robustness and predictive ability of the metamodel, we proceed to evaluate the effect of each of the input parameters on properties of the nanocomposite. Figure 3a-d show the Young's modulus vs toughness relationship generated from the metamodel, where in each panel the color indicates the value of the represented input parameter: chain length N, grafting density  $\sigma$ , polymer-NP interaction strength  $\varepsilon_{\rm pnp}$  (with units of kcal/mol), and NP edge length  $l_{\rm np}$ . We first evaluate the influence of *N* on the mechanical properties of the nanocomposite. Since the chain lengths explored here are below the entanglement length, 15,61° the main toughening mechanism is the sliding and collective interactions between polymer chains arising from different nanoparticles. Figure 3a shows that the toughness of the nanocomposite increases with N (as marked by the change from blue to yellow). The enhancement in toughness with N can be mainly attributed to the increase in effective cohesive interactions between nanoparticles with longer grafted chains that enable better overlap across brushes. However, to obtain higher stiffness, the loading ratio of nanoparticles has to be high, which can be achieved at lower values of N. The inset in Figure 3a shows the distribution of N for points that lie on the Pareto curve. As expected, the peaks are dominated at relatively low and high chain lengths, corresponding to high modulus and high toughness, respectively.

Next, we examine the effects of grafting density,  $\sigma$ . The grafting density of the polymers on the NP strongly affects the polymer chain conformations, and thus it has a major impact on the mechanical properties of the nanocomposite. Our analysis reveals that both the modulus and toughness of the nanocomposites degrade rapidly as  $\sigma$  is increased beyond  $\sim$ 10%. This is most evident near the elbow region of the curve in Figure 3b, where a shift from blue to yellow, that is, toward higher  $\sigma$ , yields points that are far from the Pareto frontier.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 4. (a) Scaling of radius of gyration in radial  $(R_g^{\perp})$  and axial  $(R_g^{\parallel})$  directions with chain length. (b) Scaling relationship in CPB  $(R \sim N)$  and SDPB  $(R \sim N^{0.5})$  regimes.  $R_i$  is the distance of ith monomer from the nanoparticle surface, and  $N_i$  is the monomer position index in the polymer chain. The dotted line shows the transition point from CPB to SDPB. (c) Snapshots of configurations of the hairy nanoparticle showing the onset of the SDPB regime (red) from the CPB regime (blue) with grafting density. All grafting densities are in units of chains/nm².

When  $\sigma$  is increased, a critical transition occurs, where polymer chains undergo a conformational change from a semidilute polymer brush regime (SDPB) to a concentrated polymer brush regime (CPB). The monomers near the surface of the NP stretch radially outward further due to high steric repulsion in this regime. In sections that are radially further away from the NP, the monomers become more coiled as they have more free volume available. In a typical polymer melt, the radius of gyration scales as  $R_{\rm g} \sim N^{0.5}$ , which can be described by a random walk model. The scaling analysis shown in Figure 4a reveals that the polymer chains adopt a slightly extended conformation in the radial direction ( $\bot$  to the NP surface) as  $R_{\rm g}^{\bot} \sim N^{0.6}$  due to the excluded volume, which is different from the melt-like conformation in the axial direction ( $\parallel$  to the surface), where  $R_{\rm g}^{\parallel} \sim N^{0.5}$ .

Examining average conformations of polymer chains in all CG-MD simulations, we look at how local properties of the chains vary near and away from the NPs. In the vicinity of the NP surface, it is observed that the polymer chains are in the CPB regime and gradually relax into the SDPB regime at larger radial distances from the surface. We find that in the CPB regime the radial distance of polymer chains scales as  $R \sim N$ , and there is a continuous transition to  $R \sim N^{0.5}$  in the SDPB regime, which is close to that of the melt state, 15 as shown by the three representative systems in Figure 4b. These findings can be corroborated by theoretical scaling arguments that could be used to determine the dependence of the transition on features such as NP radius and grafting density. For this purpose, we note that the length of polymer chains is much longer than the cross-sectional dimensions of the nanoparticle and that the aspect ratio of the CNC NPs are high due to the periodic boundary conditions. In this scenario, the NP can be approximated as a cylinder. An extension of the theoretical DC model<sup>37</sup> was proposed by Ohno et al.,<sup>63</sup> where they treated a star polymer as a system consisting of chains grafted onto a spherical nanoparticle. Considering a case where f polymer chains are grafted to unit surface area of a cylindrical NP with a radius  $r_0$ , the analytical scaling relation between the critical number of segments ( $N_{\rm cr}$ ) marking the onset of the SDPB regime and nanoparticle size and the grafting density can be derived.<sup>37</sup> Based on this model, the crossover radius  $r_{\rm c}$  is given by

$$r_c = b r_0^{1/2} \sigma_0^{*1/2} \tag{1}$$

where b is a constant that includes the proportionality term to convert the scaling relationship to an empirical relation and the excluded volume parameter defined in the DC model.  $^{37}$   $\sigma_0^*$  is the dimensionless grafting density given by  $\sigma_0^* = fl_{\rm m}/2\pi r_0$ , where  $l_{\rm m}$  is the contour length of the monomer (about 2.75 Å estimated for our CG model). We obtain the crossover radius from each of our simulations by plotting the average radial distance of each monomer in the chain against its position index in the chain (representation in Figure 4b). The constant b is evaluated from the slope of  $r_c$  vs  $r_0^{1/2}\sigma_0^{*1/2}$ . The b value of 31.64 Å  $^{1/2}$  fits our data well (Supplementary Figure S3).

When the monomer segments are in the CPB regime, the brush layer height (h) is obtained from the following equation:<sup>63</sup>

$$\left(\frac{2r_0}{3}\right)\left\{\left[1+(h/r_0)\right]^{3/2}-1\right\} = aL_c\sigma_0^{*^{1/2}}$$
(2)

where a is the proportionality constant obtained by fitting the above equation to CG-MD data (Supplementary Figure S3) and  $L_{\rm c}=N_{\rm cr}l_{\rm m}$  is the length of the graft chain in the CPB regime, *i.e.*, the contour length. The a value of 2.92 is obtained from the best fits of our data. Combining eqs 1 and 2 and given the condition that  $r_0+h=r_c$ 

$$r_0 + r_0 \left\{ \left[ \frac{3aN_{\rm cr}l_{\rm m}\sigma_0^{*1/2}}{2r_0} + 1 \right]^{2/3} - 1 \right\} = br_0^{1/2}\sigma_0^{*1/2}$$
(3)

Figure 5. Schematic showing the pairwise interaction energy  $\gamma_{pp}$  between polymer chains as the grafting density is increased from 0.38 to 2.25 (a-d). Each color represents the polymer chains tethered to a different nanoparticle. All grafting densities are in units of chains/nm<sup>2</sup>.

Simplifying eq 3, we obtain an expression for  $N_{cr}$ ,

$$N_{\rm cr} = \frac{2r_0}{3a\sigma_0^{*1/2}l_{\rm m}} (r_0^{-3/4}\sigma_0^{*3/4}b^{3/2} - 1)$$
 (4)

This analytical expression for  $N_{cr}$ , with empirical parameters (a, b) estimated from CG-MD, can be used to determine, for a given nanoparticle radius and grafting density, the minimum molecular weight of the grafted polymer that ensures that chain segments cross over to the SDPB regime. Figure 4c illustrates molecular configurations that show the increase in  $N_{cr}$  as  $\sigma$ increases. Since the chain segments in the SDPB regime are relaxed and can intermingle with chain segments arising from other nanoparticles, the mechanical properties of the assembly, especially the toughness, can be enhanced by having a greater number of polymer segments in the SDPB regime. Having a lower  $\sigma$  leads to an early onset of the SDPB regime, which is preferred for the chains to self-interact and thus achieve the optimal properties. Equating  $N_{\rm cr}$  to zero will ensure all the polymer segments are in the SDPB regime. This yields a critical value of the grafting density, *i.e.*,  $\sigma_0^* = \frac{r_0}{h^2}$ , below which all the polymer segments can effectively contribute to the enhancement of toughness. While it is plausible that having very low  $\sigma$  and N may lead to a mushroom configuration of the polymer chains, these systems correspond to a high weight % of NPs. For such systems, the polymer chains help with the formation of nanostructured assemblies rather than simply influencing the mechanical properties. Thus, we believe that having a very low grafting density may still lead to fairly high stiffness composites with desirable microstructural properties.

The prediction of the metamodel supports the hypothesis that lower grafting density enhances the mechanical properties, as shown in Figure 3b. A similar behavior has also been experimentally observed by Bockstaller et al.,14 where toughness increased at a lower  $\sigma$ . This observation was attributed to the chain conformational change from CPB to SDPB, for which the critical transition was determined from a simplified application of the DC model where the grafting density dependence on the brush height was not considered. Since it is challenging to observe molecular level details from experiments, the critical radius and chain length obtained from experimental studies are approximate. However, from our simulations, we can precisely obtain the transition point as illustrated in Figure 4b by evaluating each monomer's radial position along the length of the polymer chain to determine where the linear scaling of CPB ends. Thus, the empirical constants obtained from the simulations are expected to be more precise relative to the experiments. Our analysis extends the experimental observations on spherical NPs to the cylindrical case and provides a molecular level simulation evidence that connects polymer configurations to mechanical properties in aHNPs.

We further quantify the conformational behavior associated with the toughness of the nanocomposite by calculating the inter-NP cohesive energy. This is measured by computing the pairwise interaction energy  $\gamma_{pp}$  between the polymer chains arising from different NPs, normalized by the number of polymer beads arising from a single NP. The value of  $\gamma_{_{\rm DD}}$  gives an estimate of the normalized cohesive interactions between the polymer chains connecting two NPs, which is directly related to the work that must be carried out to fully separate the NPs, and thus the toughness of the system. At very high grafting density, it is evident that the lack of free volume makes it difficult for polymers grafted from different nanoparticles to interact with each other. This reduces the  $\gamma_{pp}$  and thus the toughness of the system (Supplementary Figure S4). This concept can be visualized directly from the molecular structure, as depicted in Figure 5.

Experimentally, the mechanical properties of hairy nanoparticle assemblies have been studied using nanoindentation techniques where the toughness is quantified by the critical stress intensity factor, which is difficult to quantify from simulations. <sup>14,15,64,65</sup> However, there are a number of studies that have characterized the work to the fracture (area under stress strain curve) of matrix-dispersed CNC nanocomposites, which would be useful to provide additional context with respect to the toughness values we computed. Dong et al. 66 found the toughness of PMMA/CNF nanocomposite films to be around 1–4 MPa. Coulibaly *et al.*<sup>67</sup> reported the toughness of nanocomposites based on CNC and a metallosupramolecular polymer to be around 40-70 MPa. A CNC polyurethane nanocomposite has a toughness ranging from 33 to 80 MPa.<sup>68</sup> A blend of polylactic acid and polyurethane reinforced with CNC gave a toughness of around 400 MPa. of Compared to these experimental values, the toughness range of 5–1000 MPa obtained from our simulations, although higher, is still reasonable considering the large strains attainable in small systems.

The strength of the interfacial interaction between nanoparticles and the polymer matrix can be tuned by surface functionalization, which has been shown to greatly influence the dispersion state of the nanoparticles and thus the mechanical properties of the conventional engineered nanocomposite. The whole some effects on modulus and toughness can be observed here as well for aHNPs, when the whole design space is considered, our simulation results indicate that the  $\varepsilon_{\rm pnp}$  does not have a major influence on the modulus and toughness relative to other input parameters, as shown in Figure 3c. This observation is mainly due to the presence of covalent bonds between the nanoparticle and the

grafted polymer chains, which limits polymer mobility while also preventing NP aggregation readily. It has been shown in experiments  $^{18,73,74}$  as well as simulations  $^{75}$  that at temperatures below  $T_{\rm g}$  in the glassy regime, the mobility of polymer chains as well as nanoparticles is restricted. Due to this, varying the interfacial interactions between the grafted polymer and the nanoparticle does not provide any additional energy dissipation, thereby limiting the toughening effect due to these interactions. Since the simulations to characterize mechanical properties of aHNPs are carried out at 300 K, well below the glass transition temperature of PMMA ( $\sim$ 380 K), our results showing that the toughness is less affected by polymer—NP interactions (compared to other studied parameters) are consistent with previous experimental observations.

As shown in Figure 3c, the choice of  $\varepsilon_{pnp}$  at lower weight % of NP (i.e., correspondingly a high content of polymers) has a small influence on the mechanical properties, as it is mainly dominated by the polymer-polymer interactions. However, at a higher weight % of NP, N is relatively small and  $\sigma$  is also low, as evident from Figure 3a and b, respectively. It is more beneficial to have a weaker interfacial interaction between the polymer and NP, as it reduces the attraction to NP and allows the polymer chains to become more extended and interact with chains from nearby NPs effectively. This leads to a slight enhancement in toughness of the nanocomposite, pushing it toward the Pareto frontier. Therefore, we see a larger proportion of relatively lower values of  $\varepsilon_{\rm pnp}$  in the high modulus region on the Pareto curve. In summary, the relatively flat distribution (inset in Figure 3c) suggests that  $\varepsilon_{\rm pnp}$  is not an important parameter practically speaking for the properties considered here. However, we note that it is preferential to have a lower interaction energy between the grafted polymer chains and the nanoparticle for higher loading of NPs.

Next, we summarize our findings on the effect of NP crosssectional dimension as determined by the edge length. At a given N,  $\sigma$ , and weight % of NP, a larger  $l_{np}$  yields a higher number of grafting sites, as the NP will have more surface area. As illustrated above, the toughness is dependent on the cohesive interaction energy between polymer chains, which increases with the number of grafts. Thus, as seen from Figure 3d, in the high toughness region, the optimal properties are achieved for larger NPs. Since N and  $\sigma$  are small in the highmodulus region (as discussed above), NPs with larger  $l_{np}$  tend to have graft distances that are greater than the radius of gyration of the polymer chain, leading to a mushroom-like configuration. This in turn degrades the mechanical properties, and hence, smaller  $l_{np}$  (blue region in Figure 3d) are required to reach the Pareto curve. Similar to the effect of chain length, the peaks of the distribution of NP edge lengths on the Pareto curve are dominated at smaller and larger  $l_{np}$ , corresponding to high modulus and high toughness regions, respectively.

The statistical sensitivity analysis can be further utilized to corroborate these overall observations of the effects of input parameters on the mechanical properties. The sensitivity indices measure the relative importance of each input parameter on the mechanical properties of the nanocomposite (summarized in Table 1). For both modulus and toughness, the total sensitivity index (TSI) for N is 0.702 and 0.670, respectively, and for  $\sigma$ , it is 0.798 and 0.603, respectively. These values are much higher than  $\varepsilon_{\rm pnp}$  (0.006 and 0.019) and  $l_{\rm np}$  (0.032 and 0.106). This implies that a small change in either N or  $\sigma$  has a greater impact on the stiffness and toughness of

Table 1. Summary of the Main, Interaction, and Total Sensitivity Indices Obtained from the Statistical Sensitivity Analysis of the Metamodel

| $\begin{array}{c ccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc$                                                                                                                 |           |       |       |       |       |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|-------|-------|-------|-------|
| $\begin{array}{cccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc$                                                                                                                  | modulus   |       |       |       |       |
| TSI 0.702 0.798 0.006 0.032 toughness chain length, N density, $σ$ polymer–NP interaction strength, $ε_{pnp}$ MSI 0.293 0.214 0.011 0.097 ISI 0.377 0.389 0.008 0.010 | MSI       | 0.179 | 0.262 | 0.006 | 0.021 |
| $ \begin{array}{c ccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc$                                                                                                                | ISI       | 0.523 | 0.537 | 0.000 | 0.011 |
| $ \begin{array}{cccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc$                                                                                                                 | TSI       | 0.702 | 0.798 | 0.006 | 0.032 |
| ISI 0.377 0.389 0.008 0.010                                                                                                                                           | toughness |       |       |       |       |
|                                                                                                                                                                       | MSI       | 0.293 | 0.214 | 0.011 | 0.097 |
| TSI 0.670 0.603 0.019 0.106                                                                                                                                           | ISI       | 0.377 | 0.389 | 0.008 | 0.010 |
|                                                                                                                                                                       | TSI       | 0.670 | 0.603 | 0.019 | 0.106 |

the nanocomposite as compared to  $\varepsilon_{\rm pnp}$  or  $l_{\rm np}$ . The choice of N and  $\sigma$  can significantly limit the stiffness and toughness to a narrow range, whereas the output space can be explored without notable dependence on  $\varepsilon_{\rm pnp}$  or  $l_{\rm np}$  (Supplementary Figures S5 and S6). Another important observation is that the interaction sensitivity indices (ISI) are higher than the main sensitivity indices (MSI), which suggests that varying just one input has a lesser influence on the output as compared to a combined change in two or more inputs.

To put our results into the classical framework of nanocomposites, it is important to plot the same Ashby plots using weight % of the NP (i.e., CNC), as shown in Figure 6. At

Figure 6. Young's modulus vs toughness plot with points color coded with respect to the weight percentage of NPs obtained from a set of input parameters. The inset images show the range of failure observed, from a brittle fracture at high weight percent NPs to a ductile fracture at relatively low weight percent NPs.

a high NP weight % (above 80%), we observe that the modulus increases sharply at the expense of toughness, with nanocomposites exhibiting a brittle-like failure mode (illustrated in the inset in Figure 6). As the polymer content increases, we see a transition into a more ductile-like failure. In line with the transverse rule of mixtures for composites,<sup>76</sup> we observe that the modulus generally increases with weight % of NP. As expected, the rule of mixtures cannot explain the dramatic variations in mechanical properties at a fixed weight % of NP given the important role that microstructural factors such as chain length and graft density play in these systems. We would like to point out that at a high weight percentage of NPs, the mechanical properties of the nanocomposite are mainly governed by the NP properties. The polymer chains help in formation of nanostructured assembles, but the chain conformations have a minimal effect on the mechanical properties.

Figure 7. Young's modulus vs toughness of the nanocomposite for different weight percentages of NPs. The shaded region in each plot shows the properties that can be achieved at a given weight %, while the red curve is the Pareto frontier for the overall material system.

A more illustrative way to represent our findings is shown in Figure 7, where we break down the range of the mechanical properties that can be achieved at different weight percentages of the NP. We further color the cases by determining whether they are expected to be above or below the critical chain length,  $N_{cr}$ , that is, in the SDPB vs CPB regime. The weight % of NPs in the system can be altered by varying N,  $\sigma$ , and  $l_{np}$ simultaneously. For a low weight % (10-25%) (Figure 7a), the predicted properties are well below the Pareto curve, as there are not enough NPs to provide substantial stiffness. At least a 60% weight of NPs (Figure 7d,e) is required to achieve enough reinforcement to reach the Pareto frontier. As the weight percentage is increased to be around 90% (Figure 7f), due to the low polymer content, the toughness of the system does not exceed 200 MPa. Hence, the ideal range to combine both stiffness and toughness appears to be around 60-90% NP by weight. The figure also reveals that the chain lengths must be above the  $N_{cr}$ , which is calculated from the scaling, to reach the Pareto frontier. Specifically, all the points on the Pareto frontier have to be above  $N_{cr}$ . As a comparison, the amount of nanofillers used in traditional polymer nanocomposites usually lies in the range of 1-10%, 77 which is much lower than the ideal range identified from our modeling. However, since there

are no ungrafted free chains in the simulated assemblies, the nanofiller content can be much higher than nanocomposites with traditional ungrafted polymer chains. Schmitt et al. have shown that up to ~85 wt % of grafted  $SiO_2$  nanoparticles can be achieved experimentally. Given that high aspect ratio nanocellulose particles with varying dimensions and surface functionalities can be obtained sustainably from a variety of sources,  $^{20,78}$  achieving the high weight percentage of CNCs as proposed here should be viable for designing future CNC-based aHNPs.

### CONCLUSIONS

In this study, we have established a CG-MD based modeling framework combined with metamodels for predicting the optimal design parameters for assembled hairy nanoparticle systems using the CNC-PMMA nanocomposite as a model system. Rather than conducting a computationally expensive parameter sweep through extensive MD simulations or solving an equally complex optimization problem, we utilize a design of experiments to develop comprehensive and robust metamodels to explore the mechanical properties of the nanocomposite. Specifically, we employ the metamodels to carry out a multiobjective optimization and obtain the Pareto

<span id="page-8-0"></span>frontier that marks the maximum performance achievable with this particular material system and the defined design space. This bottom-up materials-by-design approach allows us to efficiently evaluate the effects of various design parameters, i.e., chain length, grafting density, polymer-NP interaction strength, and the NP edge length, on the mechanical behavior of the system. Our results indicate that the chain length and grafting density are the primary factors that influence the modulus and toughness of the model nanocomposite. The complex dependence of these parameters on the polymer configurations leads to a vast range of mechanical properties at a given NP weight percent. Our metamodel prediction suggests that at least 60% NPs by weight is required to achieve the optimal nanocomposite designs defined by the Pareto frontier. Furthermore, the chain length and grafting density have to be fine-tuned to yield systems where the polymer chains are in the SDBP regime to achieve a combination of high stiffness and toughness. In fact, we find that it is not possible to reach the Pareto frontier without ensuring that the polymers attain molecular weights in this regime. While parameters governing this transition as predicted by the Daoud-Cotton model are challenging to obtain from theory or experiments, we are successful in verifying the scaling constants and obtaining the prefactors effectively from CG-MD simulations.

Our metamodeling approach, in conjunction with CG-MD simulation, provides important guidelines toward designing assembled polymer-grafted nanoparticle composites to achieve optimal mechanical properties. Looking forward, this metamodeling approach will help to accelerate the materials-bydesign process and inspire future studies in advancing mechanical performance of composites and other relevant structural materials. We envision that CG-MD informed metamodeling could be highly useful in the future to assess the role of polymer chemistry such as pendant group effects<sup>46</sup> of methacrylates or styrenes on the mechanical properties systematically and reveal key insights into the molecular design of the systems. We also believe that while being more computationally intensive, CG-MD and metamodel-based investigations of the axial properties of high-aspect-ratio CNC nanocomposites would be valuable, such as those obtained from tunicates. The higher axial modulus in CNCs and greater sliding resistance enabled by hairs may allow such systems to attain interesting strength-toughness relations that may make these materials appealing compared to conventionally engineered materials used in mechanical design.

## **METHODS**

The metamodel-based design optimization framework for material design employed in this study includes a hybrid design of experiments (DOE) (optimal Latin hypercube sampling and manual selection in regions with highly nonlinear behavior), CG-MD simulations to gather the data points, Gaussian process modeling for building the metamodel, modified leave-one-out cross validation, and metamodel runs for obtaining optimal solutions under multiple objectives. Statistical sensitivity analysis (SSA) is performed on the metamodel to understand the model behavior and to determine which input factors (i.e., material design parameters) most strongly influence the mechanical response. For this study, we analyze the effects of four input parameters, specifically, polymer chain length (N), grafting density ( $\sigma$ ), polymer-NP interaction strength ( $\varepsilon_{\rm pnp}$ ), and the nanoparticle's cross-sectional dimensions  $(l_{np})$ , on the stiffness and toughness of the material system. These material design parameters along with their ranges are summarized in Table 2. The bounds of design variables are chosen to be within an experimentally realistic

Table 2. Design Bounds of the Material Parameters Studied Using CG-MD Simulations

| input variable                                   | lower<br>bound | upper<br>bound | units                      |
|--------------------------------------------------|----------------|----------------|----------------------------|
| chain length (N)                                 | 10             | 100            | repeat units               |
| grafting density $(\sigma)$                      | 5              | 50             | % of surface beads grafted |
| polymer-NP interaction $(\varepsilon_{\rm pnp})$ | 0.3            | 5              | kcal/mol                   |
| NP edge length $(l_{np})$                        | 5              | 30             | Å                          |

range and such that CG-MD simulations can be completed in a reasonable time frame. Parameters studied here are comparable to the range seen in experiments reported, except for chain length, where higher molecular weights above entanglement length have been previously investigated but are challenging for simulations due to high computational cost of properly relaxing the chains.

Design of Experiments. The purpose of the DOE is to carry out as few simulations as possible to capture the behavior of the nanocomposite system such that the comprehensive metamodels built from these simulations are accurate enough. Here, we apply a hybrid DOE, where 80 initial points are generated with the optimal Latin hypercube sampling (OLHS) method. This produces randomized yet uniformly distributed DOEs by minimizing the L2 central discrepancy between the cumulative distribution function (CDF) of an initial LHS design and the CDF of a multivariate uniform distribution. However, due to the nonlinearity of the input—output dependencies obtained, it is observed that these data points did not adequately cover the entire range of weight of NPs, especially in the low and high weight percentages. Hence, an additional 20 data points are generated in the low and high weight percentage regions, resulting in one hundred CG-MD simulations in total.

Coarse-Grained Molecular Dynamics Simulations. CG-MD simulations are used to obtain the modulus and toughness of the model CNC-PMMA nanocomposite in the transverse direction, which is orthogonal to the direction of particle alignment. Figure 1a,b depict the coarse-graining mapping scheme used for modeling cellulose and PMMA. Two glucose monomers are represented by one CG bead, and the entire CNC is modeled as an FCC crystal. Although the surface of CNCs can be quite irregular, the canopy of the grafted polymeric layer should shield these surface features from affecting the mechanical properties. Harmonic bonds with high spring constants ( $k = 100 \text{ kcal/mol/Å}^2$ ) are employed in the axial direction of the nanocrystals to ensure that it has much greater stiffness axially. The properties of interest here do not require an extensive parametrization of cellulose nanocrystals other than their transverse elastic properties, given that the polymer is much more compliant and failure should localize in the matrix or the interface. The nonbonded cohesive interaction, represented by the standard 12-6 Lennard-Jones potential, is parametrized to achieve a transverse modulus of around 38 GPa, which is in agreement with experimental values reported.<sup>21</sup> In order to mimic the high aspect ratio of CNCs (10-100) and avoid edge artifacts, we choose a representative volume element of the CNC where its length is 5 times the width/height and employ periodic boundary conditions in the longitudinal direction, which effectively creates infinitely long crystals. PMMA is represented with a two bead per monomer CG model, one for the backbone and one for the side group. The interaction parameters for the CG model of PMMA are derived from all-atomistic simulations using the thermomechanicallly consistent coarse-graining approach, which accurately captures the mechanical behavior of PMMA. 46 To simulate the CNC-PMMA nanocomposite, a single polymer-grafted CNC is first generated, where the location of graft sites is chosen arbitrarily, and the polymer chain is grown from the designated site using a random walk algorithm as depicted in Figure 1c. 80 The system is then replicated three times (resulting in four total aHNPs) and packed together to create a representative nanocomposite system.

The CG-MD simulations are carried out using Large-scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator (LAMMPS) software.<sup>81</sup>

Periodic boundary conditions are applied in all the directions to simulate the bulk behavior of the system. Before running deformation simulations, first, a soft interatomic cosine potential is used to push the polymers apart in the NVT ensemble, so that any overlap created during packing is removed. The soft potential is then turned off and replaced by the actual interatomic Lennard-Jones potential. The system is annealed at 1000 K for 2 ns to remove any residual stresses and is then equilibrated at 600 K at a high pressure of 1000 atm for 2 ns to make sure the grafted CNCs are packed well. The system is then cooled to 300 K and equilibrated for another 2 ns under atmospheric pressure. We check that the polymer chains have relaxed by tracking the second Legendre order parameter (P2)<sup>47</sup> and consider that a P2 value less than 0.1 indicates that the polymer is fully relaxed. Figure 1d shows a snapshot of the nanocomposite system after annealing and equilibration. An integration time step of 4 fs is used for all the CG-MD simulations. The equilibration simulations are carried out under the isothermal-isobaric ensemble (NPT). The tensile test is carried out at a strain rate of 108 s<sup>-1</sup>, which is typically used in MD simulations. 46,47 It should be noted that while the strain rate used here is high compared to experiments, the design strategy and the main conclusions drawn in our study should not be affected since the strain rate dependence is relatively low in the glassy regime of the polymer. For the Pareto frontier validation, five CG-MD simulations are run where configurations at different time steps are taken at the end of equilibration, and these structures are used for the deformation simulation with different initial velocity. From the tensile tests, Young's modulus is calculated from the slope of the stress-strain curve up to 0.2% strain, and the toughness is approximated as the area under the stress-strain curve. We note that the stress-strain curve and this measure of toughness are expected to be size-dependent due to strain localization effects that depend on the number of nanoparticles studied, in other words, the number of sites where localization can occur. This effect should lead to smaller strains in experiments. Thus, toughness values reported should be taken as a qualitative measure that should correlate well with experiments in terms of the relative ranking of the systems studied, and the stressstrain curves can actually be used with further analysis to estimate fracture energies as done previously for glassy polymers. 82,83

Gaussian Process Modeling. Gaussian process (GP) modeling is an ideal metamodeling approach to capture highly nonlinear and spatially or temporally correlated data. 50,84,85 An appealing aspect of GP modeling is that the uncertainty due to lack of data can be estimated for the predictions, which means that confidence intervals could be obtained for the predicted material properties. For our purposes, we elected to use the GP approach as a comparison with other metamodeling techniques, such as polynomial regression and radial basis function, which indicates that the prediction using the GP model is more accurate for our problem. In this study, the multiresponse GP model<sup>86</sup> (with noise-corrupted responses) is fitted using an enhanced Gaussian process modeling algorithm developed by Bostanabad et al.<sup>60</sup> A random process  $\{Y_i\}$  is a collection of random variables (RVs) indexed by a set  $I = \{i\}$  where the indices are often interpreted as time or spatial locations. A Gaussian process is a random process in which the marginal distribution of each of the RVs and  $Y_i$  is Gaussian and any finite subset of the process  $\{Y_i:j \in J, J \subseteq I\}$ has a multivariate Gaussian distribution. Let the indices be natural numbers and Y be a column vector of the random variables  $X_i$  of size N, i.e.,  $Y = (Y_1, ..., Y_N)^T$ . A GP can be characterized with two mathematical objects: a mean function  $\mu_{Y}$  and a covariance matrix  $\Sigma$ 

$$\mathbf{Y} \sim N \left( \mu_{Y}, \ \Sigma = \begin{pmatrix} \theta_{1}^{2} & \theta_{12} & \cdots & \theta_{1N} \\ & \theta_{2}^{2} & \cdots & \theta_{2N} \\ & & \ddots & \vdots \\ \text{sym} & & \theta_{N}^{2} \end{pmatrix} \right)$$
(5)

The  $N \times 1$  mean vector  $\mu_Y$  gives the expected value of each  $Y_i$ . For the covariance matrix  $\Sigma$ , the diagonal element  $\theta_i^2$  is the variance of  $Y_i$ .

The off-diagonal entries  $\theta_{ij}$  indicate the covariance between the two RVs  $Y_i$  and  $Y_j$ . Given an indexed four-dimensional input and single-response data set of size N=100 for this study,  $\{(\mathbf{X},\mathbf{y})\colon \mathbf{X}=[\mathbf{x}_1,\mathbf{x}_2,...,\mathbf{x}_{100}]^T,\mathbf{x}_i=[x_{i,1},x_{i,2},x_{i,3},x_{i,4}]^T,\mathbf{y}=[y_1,y_2,...,y_{100}]^T\}$ , where  $x_{i,1},x_{i,2},x_{i,3},x_{i,4}$  are chain length (N), grafting density  $(\sigma)$ , polymer-NP interaction strength  $(\varepsilon_{\rm pnp})$ , and NP edge length  $(l_{\rm np})$ , respectively (Table 2), and  $y_i$  is the material property of interest, Young's modulus, and toughness. Assume  $\mathbf{y}$  is a realization of a GP  $\mathbf{Y}$  and is a function of  $\mathbf{X}_i$ ; then the mean vector  $\mu_{\mathbf{Y}}$  can be predicted from a function  $m(\mathbf{x})$  and the entries of the covariance matrix  $\sigma_{ij}$  can be estimated from  $\mathbf{x}_i$  and  $\mathbf{x}_j$ . GP modeling is a process of constructing the mean function and estimating the covariance matrix. The complete details of formulation of the GP model is described in the Supporting Information.

Model Validation and Verification. The GP model constructed in this work is validated using a modified leave-one-out cross validation (LOOCV) approach. LOOCV error is assessed through averaging the prediction error on a left-out data point using the model built with the data set excluding the left-out data. Each of the data points in the data set is chosen as the left-out data once. Although LOOCV is widely used for validating models built from small data sets, 87 special care needs to be taken with the validation of GP models. Since GP models make predictions by interpolation, the prediction error for a point outside the input space (the space enclosed by the input points) can be extremely large and may not represent the prediction accuracy of the model properly. Hence, we choose to use a modified LOOCV method, with which corner points (4D input space gives  $2^4 = 16$  points) in the Latin hypercube from the DOE are used solely for model building and not accounted for in the error estimation.

The error metric for the LOOCV is chosen as the mean absolute percentage error (MAPE), which can be estimated by  $(\hat{y}_i)$  is the model prediction for  $y_i$ :

MAPE = 
$$\frac{1}{N} \sum_{i=1}^{N} \left| \frac{\hat{y}_i - y_i}{y_i} \right| \times 100\%$$
 (6)

Variance-Based Statistical Sensitivity Analysis. SSA refers here to the computation of Sobol indices (*i.e.*, main sensitivity index, interaction sensitivity index, and total sensitivity index of a model) to help understand how the variation of the model responses are decomposed with respect to the input variables and their interactions. <sup>88</sup> Note that for the metamodel, Y = g(X), the total variance of a model output can be decomposed as

$$var(Y) = \sum_{i=1}^{d} V_i + \sum_{i < j}^{d} V_{ij} + \dots + V_{12\dots d}$$
(7)

where  $V_i$  is the variance induced by varying the input factor  $x_i$  while  $V_{ij..k}$  is the variance from the interaction among the factors  $x_i$   $x_j$  ...  $x_k$ . Then the MSI (denoted by  $S_i$ ) of an input  $x_i$  can be calculated with

$$S_i = \frac{V_i}{\text{var}(Y)} \tag{8}$$

Its TSI will be

$$S_{\text{Ti}} = \frac{E_{X_{\sim i}}(\text{var}_{X_i}(Y|X_{\sim i}))}{\text{var}(Y)} = \frac{V_i + \sum_{j=1, j \neq i}^d V_{ij} + \dots + V_{12 \dots d}}{\text{var}(Y)}$$
(9)

where i is the sign for "all but excluding variable i". The variances are estimated via Monte Carlo integration.<sup>89</sup>

SSA can be used for different scenarios, such as factor ranking (identification of important factors), dimension reduction (identification of unimportant factors), and model behavior analysis (identification of nonlinear or interaction effects). SSA results are used for interpreting the model and determine which input parameters govern the mechanical response or conversely have a negligible effect on the properties calculated.

<span id="page-10-0"></span>Constructing the Pareto Frontier. In the context of multiobjective optimization (MOO), a Pareto solution is a point  $(y_1, ..., y_n)$ in the multidimensional model output space such that any of the model responses  $y_i$  ( $1 \le i \le p$ ) cannot be further optimized without sacrificing at least one of the remaining ones. MOO aims at finding the set of Pareto solutions of a model, which is identified as the Pareto frontier. The metamodel output space in the polymer-NP system is nonconvex, which necessitates the use of nonweighted-sum-based multiobjective optimization algorithms such as multiobjective genetic algorithms (MOGA). However, since the surrogate model in this study is computationally inexpensive, it is possible to randomly sample a large number of points from design space and find the boundaries of the output space, which is by definition the Pareto frontier. In comparison to MOGA, this method provides a quick solution with a minimal loss of accuracy. We note that since the Gaussian process model is an interpolation-based method, we refrain from extrapolating the metamodel results to outside the design space, as this may yield inaccurate predictions.

#### ASSOCIATED CONTENT

# **S** Supporting Information

The Supporting Information is available free of charge on the ACS Publications website at DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.8b02454.

Additional information on the formulation of the Gaussian process metamodel and the validation of the metamodel prediction (PDF)

# **AUTHOR INFORMATION**

## **Corresponding Authors**

\*E-mail: wenjie.xia@ndsu.edu (W. Xia).

\*E-mail: weichen@northwestern.edu (W. Chen).

\*E-mail: s-keten@northwestern.edu (S. Keten).

# ORCID ®

Nitin K. Hansoge: 0000-0001-8361-4099 Tianyu Huang: 0000-0002-1296-3619 Robert Sinko: 0000-0001-6810-8219 Wenjie Xia: 0000-0001-7870-0128 Wei Chen: 0000-0002-4653-7124 Sinan Keten: 0000-0003-2203-1425

#### Notes

The authors declare no competing financial interest.

#### **ACKNOWLEDGMENTS**

S.K. and N.H. acknowledge support from an ONR Director of Research Early Career Award (PECASE, award #N00014163175). This work is also supported by the Center for Hierarchical Materials Design (CHiMaD), which is funded by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) (award #70NANB14H012). W.C. and T.H. acknowledge the support from Ford Motor Company and U.S. Department of Energy (award #DE-EE0006867). W.X. gratefully acknowledges the support from ND EPSCOR and Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at North Dakota State University. The authors acknowledge support from the Department of Mechanical Engineering at Northwestern University and a supercomputing grant from Northwestern University High Performance Computing Center as well as the Department of Defense Supercomputing Resource Center.

## **REFERENCES**

(1) Tjong, S. C. Structural and Mechanical Properties of Polymer Nanocomposites. *Mater. Sci. Eng., R* **2006**, *53*, 73–197.

(2) Balazs, A. C.; Emrick, T.; Russell, T. P. Nanoparticle Polymer Composites: Where Two Small Worlds Meet. *Science* **2006**, 314, 1107–1110.

- (3) Potts, J. R.; Dreyer, D. R.; Bielawski, C. W.; Ruoff, R. S. Graphene-Based Polymer Nanocomposites. *Polymer* **2011**, *52*, 5–25.
- (4) Hussain, F.; Hojjati, M.; Okamoto, M.; Gorga, R. E. Review Article: Polymer-Matrix Nanocomposites, Processing, Manufacturing, and Application: An Overview. *J. Compos. Mater.* **2006**, *40*, 1511–1575
- (5) Winey, K. I.; Vaia, R. a. P Olymer Nanocomposites. MRS Bull. 2007, 32, 314-358.
- (6) Coleman, J. N.; Khan, U.; Blau, W. J.; Gun'ko, Y. K. Small but Strong: A Review of the Mechanical Properties of Carbon Nanotube-Polymer Composites. *Carbon* **2006**, *44*, 1624–1652.
- (7) Caseri, W. Nanocomposites of Polymers and Inorganic Particles. *Hybrid Mater. Synth. Charact. Appl.* **200**7, 0836, 49–86.
- (8) Moniruzzaman, M.; Winey, K. I. Polymer Nanocomposites Containing Carbon Nanotubes. *Macromolecules* **2006**, *39*, 5194–5205
- (9) Jancar, J.; Douglas, J. F.; Starr, F. W.; Kumar, S. K.; Cassagnau, P.; Lesser, A. J.; Sternstein, S. S.; Buehler, M. J. Current Issues in Research on Structure-Property Relationships in Polymer Nanocomposites. *Polymer* **2010**, *51*, 3321–3343.
- (10) Krishnamoorti, R. Strategies for Dispersing Nanoparticles in Polymers. MRS Bull. 2007, 32, 341–347.
- (11) Chevigny, C.; Dalmas, F.; Di Cola, E.; Gigmes, D.; Bertin, D.; Boué, F.; Jestin, J. Polymer-Grafted-Nanoparticles Nanocomposites: Dispersion, Grafted Chain Conformation, and Rheological Behavior. *Macromolecules* **2011**, *44*, 122–133.
- (12) Fernandes, N. J.; Koerner, H.; Giannelis, E. P.; Vaia, R. a. Hairy Nanoparticle Assemblies as One-Component Functional Polymer Nanocomposites: Opportunities and Challenges. *MRS Commun.* **2013**, *3*, 13–29.
- (13) Gu, X. W.; Ye, X.; Koshy, D. M.; Vachhani, S.; Hosemann, P.; Alivisatos, A. P. Tolerance to Structural Disorder and Tunable Mechanical Behavior in Self-Assembled Superlattices of Polymer-Grafted Nanocrystals. *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.* **2017**, *114*, 2836–2841.
- (14) Schmitt, M.; Choi, J.; Min Hui, C.; Chen, B.; Korkmaz, E.; Yan, J.; Margel, S.; Burak Ozdoganlar, O.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R. Processing Fragile Matter: Effect of Polymer Graft Modification on the Mechanical Properties and Processibility of (Nano-) Particulate Solids. *Soft Matter* **2016**, *12*, 3527–3537.
- (15) Choi, J.; Hui, C. M.; Pietrasik, J.; Dong, H.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R. Toughening Fragile Matter: Mechanical Properties of Particle Solids Assembled from Polymer-Grafted Hybrid Particles Synthesized by ATRP. *Soft Matter* **2012**, *8*, 4072.
- (16) Grabowski, C. A.; Koerner, H.; Meth, J. S.; Dang, A.; Hui, C. M.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R.; Durstock, M. F.; Vaia, R. A. Performance of Dielectric Nanocomposites: Matrix-Free, Hairy Nanoparticle Assemblies and Amorphous Polymer-Nanoparticle Blends. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2014, 6, 21500–21509.
- (17) Koerner, H.; Opsitnick, E.; Grabowski, C. A.; Drummy, L. F.; Hsiao, M. S.; Che, J.; Pike, M.; Person, V.; Bockstaller, M. R.; Meth, J. S.; Vaia, R. A. Physical Aging and Glass Transition of Hairy Nanoparticle Assemblies. *J. Polym. Sci., Part B: Polym. Phys.* **2016**, *54*, 319–330.
- (18) Maillard, D.; Kumar, S. K.; Fragneaud, B.; Kysar, J. W.; Rungta, A.; Benicewicz, B. C.; Deng, H.; Brinson, L. C.; Douglas, J. F. Mechanical Properties of Thin Glassy Polymer Films Filled with Spherical Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticles. *Nano Lett.* **2012**, *12*, 3909–3914.
- (19) Ye, X.; Zhu, C.; Ercius, P.; Raja, S. N.; He, B.; Jones, M. R.; Hauwiller, M. R.; Liu, Y.; Xu, T.; Alivisatos, A. P. Structural Diversity in Binary Superlattices Self-Assembled from Polymer-Grafted Nanocrystals. *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 1–10.
- (20) Lee, K. Y.; Aitomäki, Y.; Berglund, L. A.; Oksman, K.; Bismarck, A. On the Use of Nanocellulose as Reinforcement in Polymer Matrix Composites. *Compos. Sci. Technol.* **2014**, *105*, 15–27.

<span id="page-11-0"></span>(21) Moon, R. J.; Martini, A.; Nairn, J.; Simonsen, J.; Youngblood, J. Cellulose Nanomaterials Review: Structure, Properties and Nanocomposites. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2011, 40, 3941−3994.

- (22) Eichhorn, S. J.; Dufresne, A.; Aranguren, M.; Marcovich, N. E.; Capadona, J. R.; Rowan, S. J.; Weder, C.; Thielemans, W.; Roman, M.; Renneckar, S.; Gindl, W.; Veigel, S.; Keckes, J.; Yano, H.; Abe, K.; Nogi, M.; Nakagaito, A. N.; Mangalam, A.; Simonsen, J.; Benight, A. S.; et al. Review: Current International Research into Cellulose Nanofibres and Nanocomposites. J. Mater. Sci. 2010, 45, 1−33.
- (23) Hubbe, M. a.; Rojas, O. J.; Lucia, L. A.; Sain, M. Cellulosic Nanocomposites: A Review. BioResources 2008, 3, 929−980.
- (24) George, J.; Sabapathi, S. N. Cellulose Nanocrystals: Synthesis, Functional Properties, and Applications. Nanotechnol., Sci. Appl. 2015, 8, 45−54.
- (25) Cudjoe, E.; Hunsen, M.; Xue, Z.; Way, A. E.; Barrios, E.; Olson, R. A.; Hore, M. J. A.; Rowan, S. J. Miscanthus Giganteus: A Commercially Viable Sustainable Source of Cellulose Nanocrystals. Carbohydr. Polym. 2017, 155, 230−241.
- (26) Lin, N.; Huang, J.; Dufresne, A. Preparation, Properties and Applications of Polysaccharide Nanocrystals in Advanced Functional Nanomaterials: A Review. Nanoscale 2012, 4, 3274.
- (27) Dufresne, A. Cellulose Nanomaterial Reinforced Polymer Nanocomposites. Curr. Opin. Colloid Interface Sci. 2017, 29, 1−8.
- (28) Nishiyama, Y.; Johnson, G. P.; French, A. D.; Forsyth, V. T.; Langan, P.; Langan, P. Neutron Crystallography, Molecular Dynamics, and Quantum Mechanics Studies of the Nature of Hydrogen Bonding in Cellulose I Neutron Crystallography, Molecular Dynamics, and Quantum Cellulose I. Biomacromolecules 2008, 9, 3133−3140.
- (29) Qin, X.; Xia, W.; Sinko, R.; Keten, S. Tuning Glass Transition in Polymer Nanocomposites with Functionalized Cellulose Nanocrystals through Nanoconfinement. Nano Lett. 2015, 15, 6738−6744.
- (30) Habibi, Y.; Lucia, L. A.; Rojas, O. J. Cellulose Nanocrystals: Chemistry, Self-Assembly, and Applications. Chem. Rev. 2010, 110, 3479−3500.
- (31) Zhang, Y.; Karimkhani, V.; Makowski, B. T.; Samaranayake, G.; Rowan, S. J. Nanoemulsions and Nanolatexes Stabilized by Hydrophobically Functionalized Cellulose Nanocrystals. Macromolecules 2017, 50, 6032−6042.
- (32) Morandi, G.; Heath, L.; Thielemans, W. Cellulose Nanocrystals Grafted with Polystyrene Chains through Surface-Initiated Atom Transfer Radical Polymerization (SI-ATRP). Langmuir 2009, 25, 8280−8286.
- (33) Kan, K. H. M.; Li, J.; Wijesekera, K.; Cranston, E. D. Polymer-Grafted Cellulose Nanocrystals as PH-Responsive Reversible Flocculants. Biomacromolecules 2013, 14, 3130−3139.
- (34) Spinella, S.; Samuel, C.; Raquez, J. M.; McCallum, S. A.; Gross, R.; Dubois, P. Green and Efficient Synthesis of Dispersible Cellulose Nanocrystals in Biobased Polyesters for Engineering Applications. ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2016, 4, 2517−2527.
- (35) Kedzior, S. A.; Graham, L.; Moorlag, C.; Dooley, B. M.; Cranston, E. D. Poly(Methyl Methacrylate)-Grafted Cellulose Nanocrystals: One-Step Synthesis, Nanocomposite Preparation, and Characterization. Can. J. Chem. Eng. 2016, 94, 811−822.
- (36) Ali, U.; Karim, K. J. B. A.; Buang, N. A. A Review of the Properties and Applications of Poly (Methyl Methacrylate) (PMMA). Polym. Rev. 2015, 55, 678−705.
- (37) Daoud, M.; Cotton, J. P. Star Shaped Polymers: A Model for the Conformation and Its Concentration Dependence. J. Phys. (Paris) 1982, 43, 531−538.
- (38) Goyal, S.; Escobedo, F. A. Structure and Transport Properties of Polymer Grafted Nanoparticles. J. Chem. Phys. 2011, 135, 184902.
- (39) Murat, M.; Grest, G. S. Polymers End-Grafted onto a Cylindrical Surface. Macromolecules 1991, 24, 704−708.
- (40) Zhang, Z.; Horsch, M. A.; Lamm, M. H.; Glotzer, S. C. Tethered Nano Building Blocks: Toward a Conceptual Framework for Nanoparticle Self-Assembly. Nano Lett. 2003, 3, 1341−1346.

- (41) Nguyen, T. D.; Zhang, Z.; Glotzer, S. C. Molecular Simulation Study of Self-Assembly of Tethered V-Shaped Nanoparticles. J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 129, 224903.
- (42) Xu, H.; Li, Y.; Brinson, C.; Chen, W. A Descriptor-Based Design Methodology for Developing Heterogeneous Microstructural Materials System. J. Mech. Des 2014, 136, 51007.
- (43) Zhao, H.; Li, X.; Zhang, Y.; Schadler, L. S.; Chen, W.; Brinson, L. C. Perspective: NanoMine: A Material Genome Approach for Polymer Nanocomposites Analysis and Design. APL Mater. 2016, 4, 53204.
- (44) Jaeger, H. M.; de Pablo, J. J. Perspective: Evolutionary Design of Granular Media and Block Copolymer Patterns. APL Mater. 2016, 4, 53209.
- (45) Hsu, D. D.; Xia, W.; Arturo, S. G.; Keten, S. Thermomechanically Consistent and Temperature Transferable Coarse-Graining of Atactic Polystyrene. Macromolecules 2015, 48, 3057−3068.
- (46) Hsu, D. D.; Xia, W.; Arturo, S. G.; Keten, S. Systematic Method for Thermomechanically Consistent Coarse-Graining: A Universal Model for Methacrylate-Based Polymers. J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2014, 10, 2514−2527.
- (47) Xia, W.; Song, J.; Jeong, C.; Hsu, D. D.; Phelan, F. R.; Douglas, J. F.; Keten, S. Energy-Renormalization for Achieving Temperature Transferable Coarse-Graining of Polymer Dynamics. Macromolecules 2017, 50, 8787−8796.
- (48) Xia, W.; Song, J.; Hansoge, N. K.; Phelan, F. R.; Keten, S.; Douglas, J. F. Energy Renormalization for Coarse-Graining the Dynamics of a Model Glass-Forming Liquid. J. Phys. Chem. B 2018, 122, 2040−2045.
- (49) Hsu, D. D.; Xia, W.; Song, J.; Keten, S. Glass-Transition and Side-Chain Dynamics in Thin Films: Explaining Dissimilar Free Surface Effects for Polystyrene vs Poly(Methyl Methacrylate). ACS Macro Lett. 2016, 5, 481−486.
- (50) Wang, G. G.; Shan, S. Review of Metamodeling Techniques in Support of Engineering Design Optimization. J. Mech. Des. 2007, 129, 370.
- (51) Shan, S.; Wang, G. G. Survey of Modeling and Optimization Strategies to Solve High-Dimensional Design Problems with Computationally-Expensive Black-Box Functions. Struct. Multidiscip. Optim. 2010, 41, 219−241.
- (52) Barton, R. R.; Meckesheimer, M. Metamodel-Based Simulation Optimization. Handbooks in Operations Research and Management Science 2006, 13, 535−574.
- (53) Miao, J.-M.; Cheng, S.-J.; Wu, S.-J. Metamodel Based Design Optimization Approach in Promoting the Performance of Proton Exchange Membrane Fuel Cells. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2011, 36, 15283−15294.
- (54) Fang, H.; Rais-Rohani, M.; Liu, Z.; Horstemeyer, M. F. A Comparative Study of Metamodeling Methods for Multiobjective Crashworthiness Optimization. Comput. Struct. 2005, 83, 2121−2136.
- (55) Song, K.; Choo, K. H.; Kim, J.-H.; Mavris, D. N. Multi-Objective Decision Making of a Simplified Car Body Shape towards Optimum Aerodynamic Performance. In ASME 2017 International Design Engineering Technical Conferences and Computers and Information in Engineering Conference; American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 2017.
- (56) Wei, X.; Naraghi, M.; Espinosa, H. D. Optimal Length Scales Emerging from Shear Load Transfer in Natural Materials: Application to Carbon-Based Nanocomposite Design. ACS Nano 2012, 6, 2333− 2344.
- (57) Xia, W.; Ruiz, L.; Pugno, N. M.; Keten, S. Critical Length Scales and Strain Localization Govern the Mechanical Performance of Multi-Layer Graphene Assemblies. Nanoscale 2016, 8, 6456−6462.
- (58) Shah, T.; Gupta, C.; Ferebee, R. L.; Bockstaller, M. R.; Washburn, N. R. Extraordinary Toughening and Strengthening Effect in Polymer Nanocomposites Using Lignin-Based Fillers Synthesized by ATRP. Polymer 2015, 72, 406−412.
- (59) Bauchy, M.; Laubie, H.; Abdolhosseini Qomi, M. J.; Hoover, C. G.; Ulm, F. J.; Pellenq, R. J. M. Fracture Toughness of Calcium-

<span id="page-12-0"></span>Silicate-Hydrate from Molecular Dynamics Simulations. J. Non-Cryst. Solids 2015, 419, 58−64.

- (60) Bostanabad, R.; Kearney, T.; Tao, S.; Apley, D. W.; Chen, W. Leveraging the Nugget Parameter for Efficient Gaussian Process Modeling. Int. J. Numer. Methods Eng. 2018, 114, 501−506.
- (61) Masuda, T.; Toda, N.; Aoto, Y. Viscoelastic Properties of Poly(Methyl Methacrylate) Prepared by Anionic Polymerization. Polym. J. 1970, 1, 418−424.
- (62) Dukes, D.; Li, Y.; Lewis, S.; Benicewicz, B.; Schadler, L.; Kumar, S. K. Conformational Transitions of Spherical Polymer Brushes: Synthesis, Characterization, and Theory. Macromolecules 2010, 43, 1564−1570.
- (63) Ohno, K.; Morinaga, T.; Takeno, S.; Tsujii, Y.; Fukuda, T. Suspensions of Silica Particles Grafted with Concentrated Polymer Brush: Effects of Graft Chain Length on Brush Layer Thickness and Colloidal Crystallization. Macromolecules 2007, 40, 9143−9150.
- (64) Choi, J.; Hui, C. M.; Schmitt, M.; Pietrasik, J.; Margel, S.; Matyjazsewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R. Effect of Polymer-Graft Modification on the Order Formation in Particle Assembly Structures. Langmuir 2013, 29, 6452−6459.
- (65) Choi, J.; Dong, H.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R. Flexible Particle Array Structures by Controlling Polymer Graft Architecture. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 12537−12539.
- (66) Dong, H.; Sliozberg, Y. R.; Snyder, J. F.; Steele, J.; Chantawansri, T. L.; Orlicki, J. A.; Walck, S. D.; Reiner, R. S.; Rudie, A. W. Highly Transparent and Toughened Poly(Methyl Methacrylate) Nanocomposite Films Containing Networks of Cellulose Nanofibrils. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2015, 7, 25464− 25472.
- (67) Coulibaly, S.; Roulin, A.; Balog, S.; Biyani, M. V.; Foster, E. J.; Rowan, S. J.; Fiore, G. L.; Weder, C. Reinforcement of Optically Healable Supramolecular Polymers with Cellulose Nanocrystals. Macromolecules 2014, 47, 152−160.
- (68) Saralegi, A.; Gonzalez, M. L.; Valea, A.; Eceiza, A.; Corcuera, M. A. The Role of Cellulose Nanocrystals in the Improvement of the Shape-Memory Properties of Castor Oil-Based Segmented Thermoplastic Polyurethanes. Compos. Sci. Technol. 2014, 92, 27−33.
- (69) Sethi, J.; Illikainen, M.; Sain, M.; Oksman, K. Polylactic Acid/ Polyurethane Blend Reinforced with Cellulose Nanocrystals with Semi-Interpenetrating Polymer Network (S-IPN) Structure. Eur. Polym. J. 2017, 86, 188−199.
- (70) Shen, J.; Li, X.; Shen, X.; Liu, J. Insight into the Dispersion Mechanism of Polymer-Grafted Nanorods in Polymer Nanocomposites: A Molecular Dynamics Simulation Study. Macromolecules 2017, 50, 687−699.
- (71) Fox, D. M.; Rodriguez, R. S.; Devilbiss, M. N.; Woodcock, J.; Davis, C. S.; Sinko, R.; Keten, S.; Gilman, J. W. Simultaneously Tailoring Surface Energies and Thermal Stabilities of Cellulose Nanocrystals Using Ion Exchange: Effects on Polymer Composite Properties for Transportation, Infrastructure, and Renewable Energy Applications. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2016, 8, 27270−27281.
- (72) Xia, W.; Song, J.; Hsu, D. D.; Keten, S. Understanding the Interfacial Mechanical Response of Nanoscale Polymer Thin Films via Nanoindentation. Macromolecules 2016, 49, 3810−3817.
- (73) Shah, D.; Maiti, P.; Jiang, D. D.; Batt, C. A.; Giannelis, E. P. Effect of Nanoparticle Mobility on Toughness of Polymer Nanocomposites. Adv. Mater. 2005, 17, 525−528.
- (74) Forum, M. S.; Petrovic, Z. S.; Zhang, W. Glassy and Elastomeric Polyurethanes Filled With Nano- Silica Particles. Mater. Sci. Forum 2014, 352, 171−176.
- (75) Gersappe, D. Molecular Mechanisms of Failure in Polymer Nanocomposites. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2002, 89, 058301.
- (76) Halpin Affdl, J. C.; Kardos, J. L. The Halpin-Tsai Equations: A Review. Polym. Eng. Sci. 1976, 16, 344−352.
- (77) Ramanathan, T.; Abdala, A. A.; Stankovich, S.; Dikin, D. A.; Herrera-Alonso, M.; Piner, R. D.; Adamson, D. H.; Schniepp, H. C.; Chen, X.; Ruoff, R. S.; Nguyen, S. T.; Aksay, I. A.; Prud'Homme, R. K.; Brinson, L. C. Functionalized Graphene Sheets for Polymer Nanocomposites. Nat. Nanotechnol. 2008, 3, 327−331.

- (78) Cudjoe, E.; Hunsen, M.; Xue, Z.; Way, A. E.; Barrios, E.; Olson, R. A.; Hore, M. J. A.; Rowan, S. J. Miscanthus Giganteus: A Commercially Viable Sustainable Source of Cellulose Nanocrystals. Carbohydr. Polym. 2017, 155, 230−241.
- (79) Jin, R.; Chen, W.; Sudjianto, A. An Efficient Algorithm for Constructing Optimal Design of Computer Experiments. J. Stat. Plan. Inference 2005, 134, 268−287.
- (80) Grest, G. S.; Kremer, K. Molecular Dynamics Simulation for Polymers in the Presence of a Heat Bath. Phys. Rev. A: At., Mol., Opt. Phys. 1986, 33, 3628−3631.
- (81) Plimpton, S. Fast Parallel Algorithms for Short-Range Molecular Dynamics. J. Comput. Phys. 1995, 117, 1−19.
- (82) Rottler, J.; Barsky, S.; Robbins, M. O.; Cracks; Crazes. On Calculating the Macroscopic Fracture Energy of Glassy Polymers from Molecular Simulations. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2002, 89, 1−4.
- (83) Meng, Z.; Bessa, M. A.; Xia, W.; Kam Liu, W.; Keten, S. Predicting the Macroscopic Fracture Energy of Epoxy Resins from Atomistic Molecular Simulations. Macromolecules 2016, 49, 9474− 9483.
- (84) Martin, J. D.; Simpson, T. W. Use of Kriging Models to Approximate Deterministic Computer Models. AIAA J. 2005, 43, 853−863.
- (85) Simpson, T. W.; Mauery, T. M.; Korte, J. J.; Mistree, F. Kriging Models for Global Approximation in Simulation-Based Multidisciplinary Design Optimization. AIAA J. 2001, 39, 2233−2241.
- (86) Conti, S.; Gosling, J. P.; Oakley, J. E.; O'Hagan, A. Gaussian Process Emulation of Dynamic Computer Codes. Biometrika 2009, 96, 663−676.
- (87) Refaeilzadeh, P.; Tang, L.; Liu, H. Cross-Validation. In Encyclopedia of Database Systems; Liu, L., Ö zsu, M. T., Eds.; Springer US: Boston, MA, 2009; pp 532−538.
- (88) Saltelli, A.; Ratto, M.; Andres, T.; Campolongo, F.; Cariboni, J.; Gatelli, D.; Saisana, M.; Tarantola, S. Global Sensitivity Analysis: The Primer; John Wiley & Sons: New York, 2008.
- (89) Sobol', I. Global Sensitivity Indices for Nonlinear Mathematical Models and Their Monte Carlo Estimates. Math. Comput. Simul. 2001, 55, 271−280.