[www.acsnano.org](www.acsnano.org?ref=pdf)

# **Anisotropy in Near-Spherical Colloidal Nanoparticles**

[Chuncheng](https://pubs.acs.org/action/doSearch?field1=Contrib&text1="Chuncheng+Li"&field2=AllField&text2=&publication=&accessType=allContent&Earliest=&ref=pdf) Li,[∥](#page-8-0) Lei [Liu,](https://pubs.acs.org/action/doSearch?field1=Contrib&text1="Lei+Liu"&field2=AllField&text2=&publication=&accessType=allContent&Earliest=&ref=pdf)[∥](#page-8-0) Ziyan [Zhang,](https://pubs.acs.org/action/doSearch?field1=Contrib&text1="Ziyan+Zhang"&field2=AllField&text2=&publication=&accessType=allContent&Earliest=&ref=pdf)[∥](#page-8-0) Dan [Zhang,](https://pubs.acs.org/action/doSearch?field1=Contrib&text1="Dan+Zhang"&field2=AllField&text2=&publication=&accessType=allContent&Earliest=&ref=pdf) [Shangzhao](https://pubs.acs.org/action/doSearch?field1=Contrib&text1="Shangzhao+Yi"&field2=AllField&text2=&publication=&accessType=allContent&Earliest=&ref=pdf) Yi, [Hongchao](https://pubs.acs.org/action/doSearch?field1=Contrib&text1="Hongchao+Yang"&field2=AllField&text2=&publication=&accessType=allContent&Earliest=&ref=pdf) Yang,[\\*](#page-8-0) and [Zhaochuan](https://pubs.acs.org/action/doSearch?field1=Contrib&text1="Zhaochuan+Fan"&field2=AllField&text2=&publication=&accessType=allContent&Earliest=&ref=pdf) Fan[\\*](#page-8-0)

**Cite This:** *ACS Nano* 2023, 17, [17873−17883](https://pubs.acs.org/action/showCitFormats?doi=10.1021/acsnano.3c03466&ref=pdf) **Read [Online](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466?ref=pdf)**

ACCESS [Metrics](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466?goto=articleMetrics&ref=pdf) & More Article [Recommendations](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466?goto=recommendations&?ref=pdf) \***sı** Supporting [Information](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466?goto=supporting-info&ref=pdf)

ABSTRACT: Two major aspects of functional colloidal nanoparticles are their colloidal stability (dispersion) and controlled assembly of nanoparticles into ordered structures. Simplifying colloidal nanoparticles as isotropically interacting spheres is unsuitable for small nanoparticles capped with hydrocarbon chain ligands in which the ligand−ligand interaction plays a prominent role in the assembly processes. However, experimentally characterizing the ligand shell structure in solution presents significant challenges, and computer simulations yield divergent results without effective validation. Moreover, the connection between detailed information regarding ligand shell structures and interparticle interactions, in relation to the

diverse dynamical behaviors of colloidal nanoparticles, remains poorly understood. In this study, we reveal the relationship between the ligand shell structures, interparticle interactions, and dynamical behaviors of few-nm-sized near-spherical nanoparticles capped with hydrocarbon chain ligands immersed in nonpolar solvents. Our study shows a transformation of the interparticle interactions from anisotropic attractions to isotropic repulsions as a result of the change in the ligand shell structures from order to disorder caused by varying temperature and other factors. The interplay between anisotropic attractions from ligand bundles and isotropic repulsions from disordered ligands dictates the nanoparticle dynamical behaviors of dispersion, uncontrolled aggregation, and controlled assembly.

KEYWORDS: *colloidal nanoparticles, ligand shell structures, anisotropic interparticle interactions, colloidal stability, nanoparticle self-assembly*

# **INTRODUCTION**

Highly monodispersed nanoparticles (NPs) such as noble metal NPs and semiconductor nanocrystals (NCs) are usually synthesized in organic phases, where NPs are dispersed in solutions by adsorbing a layer of organic ligands (e.g., oleic acid, alkanethiols) on their surfaces that can dissolve in nonpolar solvents (e.g., hexane, toluene).[1](#page-9-0) Colloidal destabilization is one of the major problems in applying colloidal NPs because they may undergo uncontrolled aggregation, forming unwanted aggregates[.2,3](#page-9-0) On the other hand, self-assembling colloidal NPs into ordered structures is an important process that provides opportunities for the bottom-up, low-cost, and large-scale fabrication of new materials with sophisticated nanostructures.[4](#page-9-0)<sup>−</sup>[7](#page-9-0) Although the NP assembly process looks straightforward, there has long been a debate about the driving force of this process.[8](#page-9-0) A model based on the Derjaguin− Landau−Verwey−Overbeek (DLVO) theory was initially used to understand the self-assembly of NPs.[9](#page-9-0),[10](#page-9-0) In this model, organic capping ligands contributed to steric repulsion, while the main driving force of assembly was the core−core van der Waals attraction. However, such assumptions resulted in the core−core attraction being too weak to promote particle assembly for small inorganic cores (diameter <10 nm), resulting in the DLVO model being unable to correctly predict the self-assembly of these classes of colloidal NPs.[2](#page-9-0),[8](#page-9-0),[11](#page-9-0)−[13](#page-9-0)

Molecular simulation studies on colloidal NPs have indicated that the ligand shell structure dominates the selfassembly of NPs into superlattices in nonpolar solvents[.11](#page-9-0)<sup>−</sup>[13](#page-9-0) Therefore, the structure of the capping ligands is essential for understanding interparticle interactions. Classical molecular dynamics (MD) simulation with empirical force fields is a

Received: April 18, 2023 Accepted: September 5, 2023 Published: September 8, 2023

<span id="page-1-0"></span>Figure 1. Ligand shell structures of the Au NPs. (a) MD simulation for a 5.1 nm Au NP capped with SC18 in a C6 solution. The yellow TO, long white chains with a purple end sphere, and short green chains are the Au NP, ligands (SC18), and solvent (C6), respectively. Some of the ligand and solvent molecules are not shown for the sake of clarity. (b) SC18-capped Au NP in a vacuum at 300 K. (c) SC18-capped Au NP in C6 at 300 K. (d) Au NP capped with 9-octadecene-1-thiol (C18H35SH) in C6 at 300 K. The crystallized ligand bundles are shown as blue surfaces. (e−i) Effects of different factors on the ligand shell structures: (e) temperature, (f) ligand grafting density, (g) ligand length, (h) size of the NP core, and (i) shape of the NP core.

promising tool for studying ligand shell structures. Extensive MD simulations have been done to study the ligand shell structures of NPs in a vacuum.[11,12](#page-9-0),[14](#page-9-0)−[16](#page-9-0) Kaushik and Clanc[y15](#page-9-0) simulated 3−6 nm NCs capped with alkane chain ligands in a vacuum. In their simulations, the capping ligands are disordered at 300 K and ligand interdigitation occurs when NCs approach each other. Based on the assumption that ligands pack optimally on the particle surface, Landman and Luedtke[11](#page-9-0) derived the optimal packing model (OPM) to predict the interparticle spacing of self-assembled nanoparticle superlattices. Schapotschnikow and Vlugt[12](#page-9-0) developed the overlap cone model (OCM) based on their MD simulations of ligand structure, wherein ligand chains fill the space within the overlapped cone between a pair of NPs. Travesset described ligand shells as spherical soft layers with topological defects and developed the orbifold topological model (OTM).[16](#page-9-0) These models can predict interparticle separations and packing configurations and agree well with experiments to a great extent.[17,18](#page-9-0) However, direct characterization of the structures of surface ligands is still very challenging. A recent experimental study on the ligand shell structure shows that a powder X-ray diffraction peak around  $q = 1.4 \text{ Å}^{-1}$  is attributed to the ordered aliphatic ligands on NCs at a dry state. <sup>19</sup>

It is evident that the process of NPs self-assembling into order superlattices by solvent evaporation initiates in a solvated state. 20,21 Therefore, it is crucial to determine the ligand shell structures in solutions and the related interparticle interactions to understand NPs' self-assembly. However, experimental characterization of the capping ligands in solutions is more challenging than that in a vacuum. MD simulations with explicit solvents have been used to provide insights into the ligand shell structures in solutions.  $^{2,13,22-25}$  Vlugt et al.  $^{12,22}$ performed simulations of alkanethiol-protected gold NPs with diameters of 2.5 and 3.0 nm in hexane at 300 K, and the ligand shells are disordered when the alkane chain contains fewer than 12 carbon atoms. They pointed out that interactions governing NP self-assembly in solutions are different from those in a vacuum, and solvents cannot be neglected in the simulations of capping ligands in solutions. Kaushik and Clancy<sup>23</sup> performed simulations of alkane chains (9–18 carbon atoms) protected NPs in hexane and toluene and found that the ligands were disordered at 300 K in both solvents. Using MD simulations, Widmer-Cooper et al. 2,13,24,25 found that inter-rod or interparticle interactions change rapidly from repulsive to attractive as the ligands order. The agglomeration of NPs characterized by using X-ray scattering was found to be associated with the ordered ligand state from MD simulations.

Although ligand shell structures in solutions can hardly be observed experimentally, different dynamic behaviors of colloidal NPs including dispersion, uncontrolled aggregation, controlled assembly, and even transformation from aggregation to superlattice have been observed. Peng et al. noted a pronounced solubility enhancement of colloidal NPs by mixing ligands with distinguishable hydrocarbon-chain lengths<sup>26</sup> or using branched ligands.3 Korgel et al.27,28 found that alkanethiol-capped gold NPs formed disordered aggregations when cooling below the melting-solidification temperature of the capping ligands and rearranged into a BCC superlattice when heated. Using in situ grazing incidence small-angle X-ray scattering (GISAXS) measurements, Bian et al.<sup>29</sup> studied the solvent vapor-mediated NP superlattice symmetry transformations. These various observations inspired us to ask whether we can gain knowledge of the ligand shell structures from the observable dynamical behaviors.

In this work, we investigate how the ligand shell structure of NPs dispersed in nonpolar solvents influences the dynamic behaviors of NPs through interparticle interactions by combining multiscale molecular simulation prediction with experimental validation. Using fine-grained (FG) simulations, we demonstrate that the hydrocarbon chains of the surface ligands may crystallize into several ligand bundles in a good solvent, resulting in anisotropic interparticle attractions. The results are then validated by constructing a coarse-grained (CG) model that can reproduce the anisotropic interparticle interaction results from the FG simulations and using the CG model to simulate dynamical behaviors that are compared directly with experiment results. Multiple factors affect the shape of the potential of mean force (PMF) as well as the strength and anisotropy of interparticle interactions and therefore result in different dynamical behaviors of colloidal NPs. Ligand crystallization induces anisotropic interparticle interactions, and NPs attract each other only when the ligand bundles touch. Due to the local and strong anisotropic

interparticle interactions, alkane chain ligand capped NPs cannot directly self-assemble into superlattices in solutions.

#### **RESULTS**

**Ligand Shell Structures.** We used FG simulations to predict the ligand shell structures of an isolated NP. We focus on near-spherical NPs with a core diameter smaller than 7 nm, whose core-core interaction is negligible.2 We began with a typical colloidal NP system of Au NPs capped with alkanethiols ( $C_nH_{2n+1}SH$ , n = 9-21, denoted  $SC_n$  hereafter) dispersed in hexane  $(C_6)$ , as shown in Figure 1a. A key point in the simulations of colloidal NPs is the choice of force field to describe the ligands and solvents. Based on the simulation and experimental results of the melting points of alkanes, ligand shell structures in a vacuum, and order-disorder transition temperatures of ligand shells, nine force fields were carefully evaluated (see section 5 in Supporting Information), and then we chose the Transferable Potentials for Phase Equilibria (TraPPE)<sup>30</sup> to describe the ligand-ligand, ligand-solvent, and solvent-solvent interactions (Table S1). Our FG simulations show that 441 octadecanethiol (SC<sub>18</sub>) molecules absorbed on the surface of an Au NP with a truncated octahedral shape and a diameter of 5.1 nm (grafting density: 5.5 nm<sup>2</sup>) crystallize into three to four ligand bundles at 300 K under vacuum<sup>19</sup> (Figure 1b). When the same capped NP is immersed in  $C_6$ , the capping ligands crystallize into eight bundles on the eight (111) surfaces of the truncated octahedron (TO) (Figure 1c). If the ligands are 9-octadecene-1-thiol (C<sub>18</sub>H<sub>35</sub>SH), they form a uniform shell with a completely disordered structure on the same NP in  $C_6$  (Figure 1d). The only difference between  $SC_{18}$ and C<sub>18</sub>H<sub>35</sub>SH is that the latter has a C=C double bond that bends the hydrocarbon chain. Crystallinities ( $\chi$ ), defined as the fraction of the ligand in the crystalline state (section 6 of Supporting Information), are 0.63 and 0.60 for the capping  $SC_{18}$  in a vacuum and  $C_6$  solvent, respectively, and 0.0 for the capping  $C_{18}H_{35}SH$  in  $C_6$ .

Several factors strongly affect the ligand shell structures<sup>24</sup> (Figure 1e-i). The crystallinity of surface ligands decreases with temperature while increasing with grafting density, tail length, and core diameter (Figure 1e-h). Some ligand bundles disappear as the crystallinity decreases (Figure 1e,h); as such, the number of ligand bundles decreases from eight to zero (complete disorder). We also modeled NP cores with different shapes, including a sphere, TO, cuboctahedron (CO), octahedron, and cube (Figure 1i and Figure S1). The crystallinity is relatively insensitive to the core shape, in comparison to the other factors. However, the shape of the core affects the morphology of the core-ligand complex. The ligands tend to crystallize on flat and large surfaces. The capped octahedron and TO show an octopodlike morphology as the ligands crystallize on eight (111) surfaces. In comparison, the ligands crystallize on six (100) surfaces of the CO and cube, showing a hexapod-like morphology. Five ligand bundles form on a 5 nm sphere, and crystallinity ( $\chi =$ 0.50) is slightly lower than that on the polyhedra.

Relationship between Ligand Shell Structures and Interparticle Interactions. To understand the relationship between ligand shell structures and interparticle interactions, the potentials of mean force (PMFs) between two capped NPs in  $C_6$  were calculated using the umbrella sampling method.<sup>31</sup> We compared two different ligands,  $SC_{18}$  and  $C_{18}H_{35}SH$ , while keeping the other factors the same. (The core is a TO with a diameter of 5.09 nm; the grafting density is 5.5 molecules per

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. Relationship between the ligand shell structures and interparticle interactions. (a) Potentials of mean force (PMFs) and the corresponding configurations of a pair of 5.1 nm Au NPs capped by  $SC_{18}$  and  $C_{18}H_{35}SH$  in  $C_6$  at 300 K. The NP pairs in the red and yellow rectangles are in the touch and interlock modes, respectively. (b) PMFs and the related structures of a pair of 5.1 nm Au NPs capped by  $SC_{18}$  in  $C_6$  at different temperatures. (c) Depth of the PMF potential well ( $\varepsilon$ ) as a function of the number of ligands in the ligand bundles (n). The configurations on the right correspond to the NP pairs in interlock mode with soft ligands ( $\lambda$  = 0.75), a reduced grafting density ( $\sigma$  = 4.5 nm<sup>-2</sup>), and a CO core. (d) PMFs and corresponding configurations of a pair of 5.1 nm Au NPs capped by  $SC_{12}$  in  $C_6$  at different temperatures. The PMF of the  $SC_{18}$ -capped NP pair at 300 K is also shown for comparison. (e) Illustration of the NP pairs in MetaDynamics simulations. The interparticle distance and orientation of the NP on the right side are fixed, while the NP on the left can rotate. Polar angles ( $\theta$  and  $\phi$ ) were used as collective variables. (f, g) Direction dependence of the PMF of the  $SC_{18}$ -capped NP pair at 320 K in (f) interlock and (g) touch modes.

nm<sup>2</sup>; and the temperature is 300 K.) The PMF between two NPs capped with C<sub>18</sub>H<sub>35</sub>SH forming disordered ligand shells indicates pure repulsion (Figure 2a). The presence of a double bond in C<sub>18</sub>H<sub>35</sub>SH hinders molecular packing in the ligand shell and encourages the conformational flexibility of the ligands. This finding aligns with the notion of utilizing oleate ligands to enhance the NPs' dispersibility in experimental studies.<sup>32</sup> In contrast, a pair of NPs capped with SC<sub>18</sub> that form ligand bundles show a strongly attractive interaction with a double-well-shaped PMF. The potential well at a surface separation of 4.5 nm is relatively shallow, with a potential well depth of 27.6 kJ/mol (11.1  $k_BT$ ) compared to that at 2.6 nm (75.4 kJ/mol, 30.2  $k_BT$ ). The two potential wells correspond to two different types of connection of the NP pair. The shallower potential well at 4.5 nm corresponds to a head-to-head touch between the ligand bundles (denoted as the "touch mode", Figure 2a). The deeper potential well at 2.6 nm corresponds to an interlock of ligand bundles with side-to-side and side-tohead connections (denoted as the "interlock mode"). More bundle—bundle touches in the interlock mode drastically decrease the potential energy, thus enhancing the interparticle attraction.

The interparticle interaction can be tuned by varying the crystallinity of ligands. <sup>24</sup> Changing the temperature is one of the most straightforward ways to control the ligand crystallinity. Our PMF calculations show that the interparticle interaction is sensitive to temperature change. The depth of the potential well decreases nonlinearly as the temperature increases (Figure 2b). Compared to the strong attraction at 300 K, the depths of the potential wells in the interlock and touch modes decrease to 25.4 kJ/mol (9.5  $k_{\rm B}T$ ) and 9.9 kJ/mol (3.7  $k_{\rm B}T$ ) at 320 K, respectively. At 330 K, the potential well of the interlock mode shifts above the reference state (i.e., no interaction) and the potential well of the touch mode disappears, suggesting that the NPs are likely dispersed in the solution.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. Dispersion and aggregation of 5 nm Au NPs in solutions. (a, b) Development of the implicit solvent CG model for SC*n*-capped NPs. (a) Coarse graining of the SC12- and SC18-capped 5 nm Au NPs in C6 to 9-bead and 17-bead patchy particle models, respectively. (b) Comparison between the interparticle interaction potentials from the CG models (solid lines) and the PMFs computed in the FG simulations (open circles). (c−e) CG simulations and TEM validation of the dynamical behaviors of NPs in a 1.3 *μ*M solution: (c) 5 nm Au NPs capped with SC18 at 300 K; (d) 5 nm Au NPs capped with SC18 at 320 K; (e) 5 nm Au NPs capped with SC12 at 270 K.

We found a close relationship between the strength of the interparticle attraction and the size of the touched ligand bundles. NPs with similar sizes of the touched ligand bundles show comparable interparticle interaction strengths. For example, the crystallinity of the ligands is 0.35 at 320 K, and each touched ligand bundle contains ∼30 molecules. The ligand bundles can be adjusted to this size by tuning other factors ([Figure](#page-3-0) 2c), including decreasing the grafting density (*σ*) to 4.5 nm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 300 K or artificially softening the hydrocarbon chains by scaling the dihedral parameters (with a scale factor *λ*) at 300 K (Supporting [Information](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466/suppl_file/nn3c03466_si_001.pdf) section 7 and [Figure](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466/suppl_file/nn3c03466_si_001.pdf) S2). For these NP pairs, the PMF curves almost

overlap with the same double-well shape [\(Figure](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466/suppl_file/nn3c03466_si_001.pdf) S3). [Figure](#page-3-0) 2c shows the depth of the interlock mode potential well (*ε*) as a function of the number of molecules in the touched ligand bundles (*n*). A linear correlation between *ε* and *n* is found. The size of the touched ligand bundles may be varied by different factors, including the temperature (*T*), grafting density (*σ*), ligand softness (*λ*), and core shape; however, the strength of attraction appears to depend solely on the size of the touched ligand bundles for the systems with the same types of ligands and with NP cores of similar sizes.

The ligand length is another important factor determining ligand shell structures and interparticle interactions.[25](#page-9-0) Shorter

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 4. Assembly of 5 nm Au NPs capped with SC18 at high densities. (a, b) CG simulations and experimental observation of the selfassembled structures by solvent evaporation at (a) 320 and (b) 300 K. The solvent evaporation process was mimicked in the CG simulations by gradually shrinking the *z*-axis of the simulation boxes (gray arrows) with a rate of 1.0 nm/*μ*s, corresponding to an increase of NP concentration from 1.66 to 2.77 mM. The radial distribution functions, *g*(*r*), of the core beads in the initial and final configurations indicate a disorder−order transition at 320 K. (c) CG simulations and experimental observation of transforming a disordered aggregate at 300 K to a close-packed structure at 330 K and C6 vapor. The interparticle interaction potentials from the CG models (solid lines) and the PMFs computed in the FG simulations (open circles) at 300 and 330 K are compared.

ligands (SC*n*, *n* ≤ 12) show significantly different ligand shell structures and interparticle interactions [\(Figure](#page-3-0) 2d). When the ligands are short, a pair of SC12-capped NPs can connect only in the touch mode but not in the interlock mode. Therefore, the PMF of the NP pair is a single-well shaped potential. At 300 K, the crystallinity of SC12 on a 5.1 nm TO is 0.3, with only 6−7 crystallized bundles formed. The average number of molecules in each bundle is about 18, and the depth of the potential well due to ligand−ligand attraction is only 7.3 kJ/ mol (2.9 *k*B*T*). Similar to the SC18-capped NP pair, the strength of the interparticle attraction between a SC12-capped NP pair increases as the temperature decreases. At 270 K, the depth of the potential well reached 10.6 *k*B*T*.

Because of the nonspherical shape of the partially crystallized ligand shell, the ligand−ligand attraction is strongly anisotropic. Umbrella sampling calculations for an NP pair with fixed orientations indicate that the NPs attract each other only when the ligand bundles touch. When a ligand bundle touches disordered ligands or disordered ligands touch disordered ligands, the interparticle interaction is repulsive ([Figure](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466/suppl_file/nn3c03466_si_001.pdf) S4). To further understand the anisotropy of the interparticle interaction, we calculated the directional dependence of the PMF of an NP pair at 320 K using the welltempered metadynamics (WT-MetaD) simulations.[33](#page-9-0) In the WT-MetaD simulations, the interparticle distances were fixed at two potential minima (surface separations of 2.6 and 4.5 nm), and the orientation of an NP was fixed [\(Figure](#page-3-0) 2e). Our simulations suggest that the potential well of the interlock mode is deep and steep [\(Figure](#page-3-0) 2f). The NPs can hardly rotate as a small angle rotation costs a large energy penalty. At 4.5 nm surface separation, four equivalent attractive sites were found on half of the NP surface, as shown in [Figure](#page-3-0) 2g. These sites correspond to the four ligand bundles formed on the NP hemisphere.

**Dynamical Behaviors of NPs in Solutions.** To verify the results of the ligand shell structures and interparticle interactions from the FG simulations, we derived a CG model based on the PMFs of NP pairs and directly compared the simulation and experimental results of the dynamic behaviors under different conditions. Our results on the nonspherical shape of the ligand shells and the anisotropic interaction suggest that the colloidal NPs should not be treated as isotropically interacting soft spheres. Consequently, we developed an implicit solvent CG patchy particle model<sup>34,38</sup> for 5 nm Au NPs capped with  $SC_{12}$  and  $SC_{18}$  in  $C_6$  (Figure 3a). We parametrized the CG model to reproduce the PMFs from the FG simulations (Figure 3b) using an adapted rate Monte Carlo simulated annealing method, 36,37 which enables us to model the dynamics of a few thousand NPs for a few hundred microseconds with an accurate description of the NP shape and the interparticle interactions. The CG model is then used to simulate NP dynamical behaviors in a solution under different conditions, which are validated by using experiments. CG simulations show that SC<sub>18</sub>-capped NPs in a solution of 1.3  $\mu$ M assemble into disordered aggregates at 300 K (Figure 3c and Figure S5a). They remain dispersed in solution at 320 K and above (Figure 3d and Figure S5b). For shorter ligands, our simulations predict that NPs capped with SC12 remain dispersed even at a low temperature of 270 K (Figure 3e and Figure S5c). We notice that the attraction strengths of  $SC_{18}$ capped NPs at 320 K ( $\varepsilon \sim 9.5 \ k_{\rm B}T$ ) and SC<sub>12</sub>-capped NPs at 270 K ( $\varepsilon \sim 10.6 \ k_{\rm B}T$ ) are considerably strong. Isotropically interacting spheres with these potentials will aggregate in a 1.3 μM solution (see Supporting Information section 4 and Figure S6). The local and anisotropic characteristics of the interparticle interactions are the reason why NPs can still be dispersed in a solution with a relatively strong attraction.

To experimentally validate the dynamical behaviors described above, we investigated colloidal stability by synthesizing 5 nm monodispersed Au NPs capped with SC<sub>12</sub> and SC<sub>18</sub> using a well-established chloroauric acid reduction method. As-synthesized Au NPs were dispersed in C<sub>6</sub> to form 1.3  $\mu$ M (1 mg/mL) solutions. At room temperature (298 K), SC18-capped NPs aggregated and precipitated from the solution after standing for about 1 h (see Supporting Information section 8). The fast Fourier transform (FFT) confirmed that the precipitate was a disordered aggregate (Figure 3c). At 323 K (50 °C), no precipitate was found in the solution. The NPs in the solution were monodisperse (Figure 3d). The critical point of aggregation—dispersion of a 1.3  $\mu$ M solution is ~308 K (Supporting Information section 9 and Figure S7). The NPs capped with SC<sub>12</sub> were kept dispersed in the solution at a low temperature of 277 K (4 °C; Figure 3e). These experimental results are in agreement with the simulation predictions. It is worth noting that such experiment validations are achieved by the use of a CG model to simulate the dynamical behaviors. Such validations have not been achieved in previous simulations using FG simulations due to current challenges in directly observing and measuring the experimental interfacial phenomena at a microscopic level. We also performed experiments with similar systems but replaced the core with 5 nm PbS NCs. The experimental results remain unchanged (see Supporting Information section 10 and Figure S8), indicating the prominent role of the ligand shells in colloidal stability and NP self-assembly as well as the generality of our findings.

**Self-Assembly of NPs by Solvent Evaporation.** Having investigated colloidal stability, we then applied CG simulations to mimic the situation of solvent evaporation (controlled

assembly) by shrinking the simulation box starting from a relatively high concentration (1.66 mM; Figure 4a). Ligand crystallization and anisotropic interparticle interactions prevent the NPs from spontaneously assembling into ordered structures in a solution. However, solvent evaporation enables dispersed NPs to self-assemble into ordered close-packed structures. 18,20 Like packing hard spheres at high densities, NPs capped with hydrocarbon chain ligands self-assemble into close-packed structures using evaporation-based methods driven by entropy. 5,38,39 The key to assembling this class of NPs into close-packed structures is overcoming the anisotropic attraction such that the NPs resemble soft spheres. If the anisotropic attraction surpasses the isotropic repulsion, the NPs will form a disordered structure by solvent evaporation. 38,39 The CG simulations and radial distribution functions, g(r), of the core beads suggest that NPs capped with SC<sub>18</sub> selfassembled into an fcc structure at 320 K and a concentration of 2.21 mM (Figure 4a and Figure S9). In contrast, the NPs form a disordered structure at 300 K (Figure 4b and Figure S10). This phenomenon has been previously observed 18,27,28 and verified by our solvent evaporation experiments (Figure 4a,b).

Finally, we used the CG model to investigate the possible transformation from disordered aggregates to ordered structures. 39 As the ligand shell structure is changeable and the ligand-ligand van der Waals interaction is relatively weak, the structures self-assembled by alkanethiol-capped Au NPs in the presence of solvent molecules are flexible and deformable. When the temperature increases, the interparticle interaction can transform from anisotropic attraction to isotropic repulsion. Thus, we deduce that a disordered aggregate may transform into an ordered structure by elevating the temperature under a C<sub>6</sub> atmosphere (Figure S11a). Both CG simulations and experiments verified our hypothesis. We performed CG simulations starting from a disordered aggregate of NPs capped with SC<sub>18</sub> formed at 300 K and a concentration of 2.77 mM. The NPs were rearranged into a closed-pack superlattice in 0.7  $\mu s$  at 330 K (Figure 4c and Figure S11). Radial distribution functions indicate that the NPs in the aggregates connect within the interlock mode while they connect within the touch mode in the superlattices (Figure 4c). To validate the results experimentally, we placed the disordered aggregates formed by SC<sub>18</sub>-capped Au NPs on the interface of ethylene glycol and supplied a C<sub>6</sub> atmosphere at 333 K. As a result, the aggregates could rearrange to form ordered superlattice films (Figure 4c).

#### **DISCUSSION**

The previous hypothesis suggested that the hydrocarbon chain ligands interdigitated in a solution or vacuum. <sup>29,40</sup> However, our simulations demonstrate that ligand interdigitation is unstable (Figure S12), which aligns with other simulation studies. <sup>41</sup> We attribute the instability of the ligand interdigitation to the unfavorable entropy loss associated with this ligand shell structure. Intuitively, it is expected that the alkane tails of the ligands would be disordered in a nonpolar solvent due to the principle of "like dissolves like". Nevertheless, long alkane chain ligands can crystallize in a good solvent at room temperature, likely facilitated by the ordered packing of the head groups on the NP surfaces.

In our simulations, alkanethiols on NPs crystallize into bundles in a nonpolar solvent at room temperature and result in anisotropic interparticle interactions. While in the OCM<sup>12</sup> and OTM, <sup>16</sup> the capped alkanethiols are disordered with

vortices-like defects formed between NPs. These models aim to depict the self-assembled structures that have already formed in a dry state after solvent evaporation. Therefore, the ligand shell structures in the OCM and the OTM are more appropriate for describing NPs with disordered ligands in a vacuum, such as C<sub>18</sub>H<sub>35</sub>SH, oleic acid, or SC<sub>18</sub> at high temperatures (Figure S13). We also found that the force fields utilized in these studies considerably overestimate the melting points of alkanes (refer to Supporting Information section 5 and Table S2). In the OCM and the OTM, the simulations were conducted well above the alkane melting points, and therefore, the conclusions of ligand shell structures are not relevant to the choice of force fields. We aim to associate the dynamical behaviors observed in experiments with the ligand shell structures from FG simulations through the calculation of interparticle interactions and the CG simulations. Therefore, the choice of a force field that can accurately predict the melting points of ligands is crucial in our study.

Widmer-Cooper and Geissler<sup>13</sup> have discovered the possible crystallization of alkane chain ligands on NPs in a solution through molecular simulations. They proposed that simply varying the temperature should enable tuning of interparticle interactions and induce NP self-assembly into superstructures. However, our experiments (Supporting Information section 9) did not result in controlled self-assembly of alkanethiol-capped NPs in hexane by varying the temperature. Nevertheless, our MD simulations demonstrate that the strength of attraction between two NPs can be continuously tuned. We attribute the inability to achieve direct crystallization of hydrocarbon chaincapped NPs in nonpolar solvents to the strong anisotropy of interparticle interactions.

Some recent work has used the ligand shell structure to control the colloidal stability and NP self-assembly. 3,26,42,43 For example, Peng et al. have proposed to improve the colloidal stability by increasing the ligand entropy, whereby ligands with branched tails<sup>3</sup> and a mixture of ligands with different lengths<sup>26</sup> have been used to prevent ligands from crystallizing. Chen et al. 42,43 have achieved assembling tetrahedral NCs into quasicrystalline structures by adsorbing straight and bent ligands on different nanocrystal facets. Facets capped with straight ligands were linked together (by ligand crystallization) to form triangular dipyramids that were the critical building blocks for the formation of quasi-crystalline structures. 42,43 Our simulations and experiments show that small-sized Au NPs capped with alkanethiols cannot assemble directly into ordered structures in a good solvent. However, direct self-assembling of NPs in solutions can be achieved with alternative ligands, 6,4 solvents,<sup>45</sup> and NP cores<sup>46</sup> as long as the attraction between particles is kept isotropic.

#### **CONCLUSIONS**

This work reveals the relationship among the ligand shell structures, interparticle interactions, and dynamical behaviors of small-sized colloidal NPs in a nonpolar solvent. Near-spherical NPs capped by alkanethiol ligands may have a nonspherical shape in a good solvent through ligand crystallization, which causes strongly anisotropic interparticle interactions. The tight relationship between ligand shell structures and interparticle interactions distinguishes colloidal NPs from the ionic and molecular solutions (e.g., NaCl aqueous solutions). In these common solutions, the interionic or intermolecular interaction is determined by the electronic structures of the ions and molecules, and its strength and

isotropy are typically temperature-independent. However, the ligand shell structures respond sensitively to the temperature and other factors, leading to dramatic changes in interparticle interactions. This property provides opportunities for delicate control of the motion and dynamic behavior of colloidal NPs.

#### **METHODS**

**Fine-Grained Molecular Dynamics Simulations.** All finegrained (FG) Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulations were performed using the GROMACS simulation package. The SH and CH $_x$  (x = 2 or 3) groups were treated as united atoms. The TraPPE force field was used to describe the intermolecular and intramolecular interactions of the alkane and alkene chains of the ligands (tail groups), and the solvent molecules. Au–Au, Au-SH, and Au-CH $_x$  interactions were described using a Lennard-Jones (LJ) potential with parameters adapted from refs. 12,48 The other LJ parameters were obtained using the Lorentz–Berthelot combining rules (i.e.,  $\epsilon_{ij} = \sqrt{\epsilon_i \epsilon_j}$ ;  $\sigma_{ij} = (\sigma_i + \sigma_j)/2$ ). All force field parameters of the FG models are listed in Table S1.

The simulation systems were prepared as in Supplementary Text 1. The periodic boundary conditions were used in all FG simulations. The Bussi-Donadio-Parrinello thermostat with a time constant of 0.1 ps was used to control the temperature. The Parrinello–Rahman barostat was used to control the pressure, with a time constant of 4 ps. A long-range dispersion correction was applied to the energy and pressure. The cutoff radius was set at 1.2 nm, and the time step was chosen to be 2 fs. Each system was equilibrated in an NpT ensemble for at least 50 ns at the target temperature (270–350 K) and at 1 atm, followed by a 10 ns production run for sampling.

Umbrella Sampling Method. Based on the equilibrium configuration of isolated NPs, pairs of NPs immersed in C<sub>6</sub>) were constructed to investigate the interparticle interactions. The potential of mean force (PMF) of an NP pair was computed using the umbrella sampling method. The distance between the NP cores  $(R_c)$  was used as the collective variable (CV). The sampling path was divided into a few tens of umbrella sampling windows, and the initial configurations at each window were generated from a pulling MD simulation. Simulations were performed in each window, and  $R_c$  was restrained using a harmonic spring (spring constant  $k_{\rm spr} = 5000 \text{ kJ/}$  $mol/nm^2$ ) connecting the core centers.  $R_c$  was increased from 7.45 to 10.50 nm for SC<sub>18</sub>-capped NP pairs and from 8.05 to 8.60 nm for SC<sub>12</sub>-capped NP pairs with a sampling window width of 0.05 nm. In each simulation, the NPs were allowed to rotate freely and the ligand shells were optimized using an annealing procedure (the system was equilibrated at 380 K for 1 ns to melt the ligands, and was then gradually cooled to the targeted temperatures in 3 ns). After simulated annealing, the system was equilibrated for 20 ns, followed by a production run for at least 20 ns. The force on the harmonic spring was sampled for each window to compute the PMF using the weighted histogram analysis method (WHAM). 52,53

**Meta-Dynamics Simulations.** Well-tempered MetaDynamics (WT-MetaD) simulations were performed using GROMACS patched with PLUMED. He has between the NP pairs were constrained at the minima of the PMF potential wells with harmonic springs (spring constant  $k_{\rm spr} = 5000$  kJ/mol/nm²). The orientation of one NP was fixed, and the other NP was allowed to rotate freely. The polar angles of the vector perpendicular to a (100) surface of the rotating NP, θ and φ, were used as CVs (Figure 2e). In all WT-MetaD simulations, a Gaussian bias potential with a height of 1.2 kJ/mol, a width of  $\pi/30$ , and a bias factor of 10 was added to the systems every 10000 timesteps. WT-MetaD simulations were performed for SC<sub>18</sub> and SC<sub>12</sub>-capped NP pairs for 500 ns at 320 and 270 K, respectively.

Implicit Solvent Coarse-Grained Model. An implicit solvent coarse-grained (CG) model for colloidal NPs was deduced from the PMFs obtained from the FG simulations. In our CG model, the NP cores (with disordered ligands) were described by one large repulsive bead (core bead), while the crystallized SC<sub>18</sub> and SC<sub>12</sub> ligand bundles were described by two small attractive beads (ligand beads) and one

<span id="page-8-0"></span>small attractive bead, respectively. Therefore, the 5.1 nm TOs covered by SC18 and SC12 consist of 17 and 9 CG beads, respectively. The only exception is that the SC18 ligand bundle at 330 K was described by one ligand bead, because the size of the ligand bundle at such a high temperature is small. The core-ligand complex CG models were treated as rigid bodies. The ligand beads were located along the ⟨111⟩ directions of the Au NP ([Figure](#page-4-0) 3a). The size of the ligand beads was determined on the basis of the dimensions of the crystallized ligand bundles ([Supplementary](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466/suppl_file/nn3c03466_si_001.pdf) Text 2). The repulsion between core beads and the attraction between ligand beads were described by the Weeks−Chandler−Andersen (WCA) and shifted Lennard-Jones (sLJ) potentials, respectively. The Gaussian (Gauss) potential was used to describe the interaction between the core and the ligand beads. We used the adaptive rate Monte Carlo simulated annealing (ARMCSA) metho[d36,37](#page-9-0) to parametrize the CG models by fitting the interparticle potentials to the PMFs obtained from the FG simulations. Details about the functional forms, parametrization, and the final parameters are provided in [Supplementary](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466/suppl_file/nn3c03466_si_001.pdf) Text 2 and Table S4 [and](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466/suppl_file/nn3c03466_si_001.pdf) 5. Details about the isotropic monobead CG model are also provided in [Supplementary](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466/suppl_file/nn3c03466_si_001.pdf) Text 3 and Table S6.

**Coarse-Grained Brownian Dynamics Simulations.** Brownian Dynamics (BD) simulations with the CG models were performed by using the LAMMPS package to predict the dynamical behaviors of colloidal NPs. To study the colloidal stability of low-concentration solutions, 1000 CG NPs were placed in a 2.24 × 2.24 × 2.24 *μ*m3 simulation box. This system describes an NP solution with a concentration of 1.3 *μ*M. 100 *μ*s BD simulations (100 *μ*s) were performed in the *NVT* ensemble with a time step of 0.1 ps. The Langevin thermostat was used to control the temperature with a damping parameter of 10 ps. To simulate the process of solvent evaporation, 1000 CG NPs were placed in a 100 × 100 × 100 nm<sup>3</sup> cubic simulation box. The effects of solvent evaporation were mimicked by reducing the *z*-axis of the simulation box at a rate of 0.1 nm/*μ*s. BD simulations were performed in the *NVT* ensemble for 40 *μ*s, increasing the concentration of colloidal NPs from 1.66 to 2.77 mM. To simulate the process from a disordered aggregate to an ordered structure, we extracted the NP positions from the solvent evaporation simulation at 300 K and a concentration of 2.77 mM. The coordinates of the ligand beads were adjusted according to the CG model at 330 K. BD simulations were performed using the set of parameters for 330 K in the *NVT* ensemble for 1000 ns.

**Experimental Section.** Monodispersed 5 nm Au NPs were synthesized using the chloroauric acid reduction method.[55](#page-10-0) The 5 nm PbS NCs were synthesized using the well-established hot injection method. 1-Dodecanethiol or 1-octadecanethiol were added into the solutions and magnetically stirred for 8 h for the ligand exchange of Au NPs and PbS NCs. To determine the critical point of the dispersion-aggregation transition of colloidal Au NPs, the NP solution was initially placed in a water bath at 323 K and the temperature was decreased with a step of 1 K each time. Samples extracted from the solution at different temperatures were observed by using TEM. In the solvent evaporation experiment, ethylene glycol was used as a liquid substrate of NPs and was loaded in a circular Teflon trough. The NPs solution was injected into the substrate. A superlattice film formed at the surface of ethylene glycol as the solvent evaporated. To transform disordered aggregates into an ordered superlattice, aggregates of SC18-capped Au NPs were dropped on the surface of ethylene glycol in a Teflon trough. A solvent atmosphere was formed by the evaporation of hexane, which was loaded into a large well containing the Teflon trough. A glass Petri-dish was used to cover the well, and the whole device was transferred to an oven with a temperature of 320 K. Details of chemicals, syntheses and characterizations, and experimental setup and procedure are provided in [Supplementary](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466/suppl_file/nn3c03466_si_001.pdf) Text 4.

# **ASSOCIATED CONTENT**

# \***sı Supporting Information**

The Supporting Information is available free of charge at [https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466?goto=supporting-info).

Details of the FG simulations, CG model, BD simulations with isotropic CG models, and experiments; supplementary discussion, including evaluation of force fields, crystallinity of the ligand shell, effect of ligand stiffness, experimental observation of the dynamical behaviors of Au NPs, critical point of Au-SC18 solutions, and dynamical behaviors of PbS NCs; figures of PMFs of NP pairs with similar sized ligand bundles, PMFs of an NP pair with different orientations, snapshots and analyses of CG simulations, and simulations of ligand interdigitation and an NP pair at 350 K in a vacuum; force field and geometrical parameters used in the FG and CG simulations ([PDF](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466/suppl_file/nn3c03466_si_001.pdf))

# **AUTHOR INFORMATION**

## **Corresponding Authors**

Hongchao Yang − *Suzhou Institute of Nano-Tech and Nano-Bionics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Suzhou 215123, P. R. China*; Email: [hcyang2014@sinano.ac.cn](mailto:hcyang2014@sinano.ac.cn)

Zhaochuan Fan − *Suzhou Institute of Nano-Tech and Nano-Bionics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Suzhou 215123, P. R. China; School of Nano-Tech and Nano-Bionics, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei 230026, P. R. China;* [orcid.org/0000-0001-9492-5722](https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9492-5722);

Email: [zcfan2021@sinano.ac.cn](mailto:zcfan2021@sinano.ac.cn)

#### **Authors**

Chuncheng Li − *Suzhou Institute of Nano-Tech and Nano-Bionics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Suzhou 215123, P. R. China;* [orcid.org/0000-0002-4200-681X](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4200-681X)

Lei Liu − *Suzhou Institute of Nano-Tech and Nano-Bionics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Suzhou 215123, P. R. China; School of Nano-Tech and Nano-Bionics, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei 230026, P. R. China*

Ziyan Zhang − *Suzhou Institute of Nano-Tech and Nano-Bionics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Suzhou 215123, P. R. China; School of Nano-Tech and Nano-Bionics, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei 230026, P. R. China*

Dan Zhang − *Suzhou Institute of Nano-Tech and Nano-Bionics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Suzhou 215123, P. R. China; Department of Chemistry, Shanghai University, Shanghai 200444, P. R. China*

Shangzhao Yi − *Suzhou Institute of Nano-Tech and Nano-Bionics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Suzhou 215123, P. R. China*

Complete contact information is available at: [https://pubs.acs.org/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acsnano.3c03466?ref=pdf)

### **Author Contributions**

∥ C.L., L.L., and Z.Z. contributed equally to this work. Z.F. conceived the project and supervised the simulation work. C.L. and L.L. performed the FG simulations. L.L., C.L., D.Z., and S.Y. developed the CG model and performed the CG simulations. C.L. and L.L. analyzed the simulation data. H.Y. supervised the experimental work. Z.Z. synthesized the NPs and conducted the assembly experiments. All authors contributed to the manuscript writing, review, and editing.

### **Notes**

The authors declare no competing financial interest.

# <span id="page-9-0"></span>**ACKNOWLEDGMENTS**

This work was supported by the CAS Pioneer Hundred Talents Program, the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant 22271308), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant 22302226), and Jiangsu Funding Program for Excellent Postdoctoral Talent (Grant JB0206005). We thank the Suzhou Supercomputing Center (SISCC) and Beijing PARATERA Tech Co., Ltd. for the use of the highperformance computing facilities and the associated technical support services, Dr. Liyuan Fan and Dr. Shou-Han Zhou for critical reading of the manuscript, and Dr. Ran Ni for helpful discussions.

# **REFERENCES**

- (1) Calvin, J. J.; Brewer, A. S.; Alivisatos, A. P. The role of [organic](https://doi.org/10.1038/s44160-022-00025-4) ligand shell structures in colloidal [nanocrystal](https://doi.org/10.1038/s44160-022-00025-4) synthesis. *Nat. Synth.* 2022, *1*, 127−137.
- (2) Kister, T.; Monego, D.; Mulvaney, P.; Widmer-Cooper, A.; Kraus, T. Colloidal stability of apolar [nanoparticles:](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.8b02202?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) The role of particle size and ligand shell [structure.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.8b02202?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *ACS Nano* 2018, *12*, 5969− 5977.
- (3) Yang, Y.; Qin, H.; Jiang, M.; Lin, L.; Fu, T.; Dai, X.; Zhang, Z.; Niu, Y.; Cao, H.; Jin, Y.; et al. Entropic ligands for [nanocrystals:](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.6b00730?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) from unexpected solution properties to outstanding [processability.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.6b00730?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Nano Lett.* 2016, *16*, 2133−2138.
- (4) Vanmaekelbergh, D. [Self-assembly](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nantod.2011.06.005) of colloidal nanocrystals as route to novel classes of [nanostructured](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nantod.2011.06.005) materials. *Nano Today* 2011, *6*, 419−437.
- (5) Boles, M. A.; Engel, M.; Talapin, D. V. [Self-assembly](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00196?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of colloidal [nanocrystals:](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00196?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) From intricate structures to functional materials. *Chem. Rev.* 2016, *116*, 11220−11289.
- (6) Santos, P. J.; Gabrys, P. A.; Zornberg, L. Z.; Lee, M. S.; Macfarlane, R. J. [Macroscopic](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-03355-z) materials assembled from nanoparticle [superlattices.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-03355-z) *Nature* 2021, *591*, 586−591.
- (7) Lee, M. S.; Yee, D. W.; Ye, M.; Macfarlane, R. J. [Nanoparticle](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c12335?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) assembly as a materials [development](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c12335?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) tool. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 2022, *144*, 3330−3346.
- (8) Goubet, N.; Richardi, J.; Albouy, P.-A.; Pileni, M.-P. [Which](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201100382) forces control [supracrystal](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201100382) nucleation in organic media? *Adv. Funct. Mater.* 2011, *21*, 2693−2704.
- (9) Titov, A. V.; Král, P. Modeling the [self-assembly](https://doi.org/10.1021/nl801530x?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of colloidal nanorod [superlattices.](https://doi.org/10.1021/nl801530x?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Nano Lett.* 2008, *8*, 3605−3612.
- (10) Khan, S. J.; Pierce, F.; Sorensen, C.; Chakrabarti, A. [Self](https://doi.org/10.1021/la9008202?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as)assembly of ligated gold nanoparticles: [phenomenological](https://doi.org/10.1021/la9008202?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) modeling and computer [simulations.](https://doi.org/10.1021/la9008202?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Langmuir* 2009, *25*, 13861−13868.
- (11) Landman, U.; Luedtke, W. Small is different: [energetic,](https://doi.org/10.1039/b312640b) structural, thermal, and [mechanical](https://doi.org/10.1039/b312640b) properties of passivated nanocluster [assemblies.](https://doi.org/10.1039/b312640b) *Faraday Discuss.* 2004, *125*, 1−22.
- (12) Schapotschnikow, P.; Vlugt, T. J. [Understanding](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3227043) interactions between capped [nanocrystals:](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3227043) Three-body and chain packing effects. *J. Chem. Phys.* 2009, *131*, 124705.
- (13) Widmer-Cooper, A.; Geissler, P. [Orientational](https://doi.org/10.1021/nl403067p?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) ordering of [passivating](https://doi.org/10.1021/nl403067p?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) ligands on CdS nanorods in solution generates strong rodrod [interactions.](https://doi.org/10.1021/nl403067p?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Nano Lett.* 2014, *14*, 57−65.
- (14) Ghorai, P. K.; Glotzer, S. C. Molecular dynamics [simulation](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp0746289?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) study of [self-assembled](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp0746289?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) monolayers of alkanethiol surfactants on spherical gold [nanoparticles.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp0746289?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *J. Phys. Chem. C* 2007, *111*, 15857− 15862.
- (15) Kaushik, A. P.; Clancy, P. Explicit all-atom [modeling](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3689973) of realistically sized [ligand-capped](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3689973) nanocrystals. *J. Chem. Phys.* 2012, *136*, 114702.
- (16) Travesset, A. Soft skyrmions, [spontaneous](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.7b02219?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) valence and selection rules in nanoparticle [superlattices.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.7b02219?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *ACS Nano* 2017, *11*, 5375−5382.
- (17) Coropceanu, I.; Boles, M. A.; Talapin, D. V. [Systematic](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b12539?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) mapping of binary nanocrystal [superlattices:](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b12539?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) The role of topology in phase [selection.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b12539?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 2019, *141*, 5728−5740.

- (18) Boles, M. A.; Talapin, D. V. [Many-body](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b00839?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) effects in nanocrystal [superlattices:](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b00839?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) departure from sphere packing explains stability of binary [phases.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b00839?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 2015, *137*, 4494−4502.
- (19) Calvin, J. J.; Kaufman, T. M.; Sedlak, A. B.; Crook, M. F.; Alivisatos, A. P. [Observation](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-22947-x) of ordered organic capping ligands on [semiconducting](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-22947-x) quantum dots via powder X-ray diffraction. *Nat. Commun.* 2021, *12*, 2663.
- (20) Weidman, M. C.; Smilgies, D.-M.; Tisdale, W. A. [Kinetics](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4600) of the [self-assembly](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4600) of nanocrystal superlattices measured by real-time in situ X-ray [scattering.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4600) *Nat. Mater.* 2016, *15*, 775−781.
- (21) Whitham, K.; Smilgies, D.-M.; Hanrath, T. Entropic, [enthalpic,](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.7b04223?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) and kinetic aspects of interfacial nanocrystal [superlattice](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.7b04223?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) assembly and [attachment.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.7b04223?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Chem. Mater.* 2018, *30*, 54−63.
- (22) Pool, R.; Schapotschnikow, P.; Vlugt, T. J. [Solvent](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp071491d?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) effects in the [adsorption](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp071491d?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of alkyl thiols on gold structures: A molecular simulation [study.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp071491d?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *J. Phys. Chem. C* 2007, *111*, 10201−10212.
- (23) Kaushik, A. P.; Clancy, P. [Solvent-driven](https://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.23152) symmetry of selfassembled nanocrystal superlattices�A [computational](https://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.23152) study. *J. Comput. Chem.* 2013, *34*, 523−532.
- (24) Widmer-Cooper, A.; Geissler, P. L. [Ligand-mediated](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b05569?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) [interactions](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b05569?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) between nanoscale surfaces depend sensitively and nonlinearly on [temperature,](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b05569?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) facet dimensions, and ligand coverage. *ACS Nano* 2016, *10*, 1877−1887.
- (25) Monego, D.; Kister, T.; Kirkwood, N.; Mulvaney, P.; Widmer-Cooper, A.; Kraus, T. Colloidal stability of apolar [nanoparticles:](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.8b02883?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) role of ligand [length.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.8b02883?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Langmuir* 2018, *34*, 12982−12989.
- (26) Pang, Z.; Zhang, J.; Cao, W.; Kong, X.; Peng, X. [Partitioning](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-10389-5) surface ligands on [nanocrystals](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-10389-5) for maximal solubility. *Nat. Commun.* 2019, *10*, 2454.
- (27) Yu, Y.; Jain, A.; Guillaussier, A.; Voggu, V. R.; Truskett, T. M.; Smilgies, D.-M.; Korgel, B. A. Nanocrystal [superlattices](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5FD00006H) that exhibit [improved](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5FD00006H) order on heating: an example of inverse melting? *Faraday Discuss.* 2015, *181*, 181−192.
- (28) Yu, Y.; Guillaussier, A.; Voggu, V. R.; Pineros, W.; Truskett, T. M.; Smilgies, D.-M.; Korgel, B. A. Cooling [Dodecanethiol-Capped](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b09708?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) 2 nm Diameter Gold Nanocrystal [Superlattices](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b09708?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) below Room Temperature Induces a Reversible Order−Disorder Structure [Transition.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b09708?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *J. Phys. Chem. C* 2016, *120*, 27682−27687.
- (29) Bian, K.; Choi, J. J.; Kaushik, A.; Clancy, P.; Smilgies, D.-M.; Hanrath, T. [Shape-anisotropy](https://doi.org/10.1021/nn103303q?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) driven symmetry transformations in nanocrystal superlattice [polymorphs.](https://doi.org/10.1021/nn103303q?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *ACS Nano* 2011, *5*, 2815−2823.
- (30) Martin, M. G.; Siepmann, J. I. [Transferable](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp972543+?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) potentials for phase equilibria. 1. [United-atom](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp972543+?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) description of n-alkanes. *J. Phys. Chem. B* 1998, *102*, 2569−2577.
- (31) Torrie, G. M.; Valleau, J. P. [Nonphysical](https://doi.org/10.1016/0021-9991(77)90121-8) sampling distributions in Monte Carlo free-energy [estimation:](https://doi.org/10.1016/0021-9991(77)90121-8) Umbrella sampling. *J. Comput. Phys.* 1977, *23*, 187−199.
- (32) Ofosu, C. K.; Kang, J.; Truskett, T. M.; Milliron, D. J. [Effective](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.2c02627?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Hard-Sphere Repulsions between [Oleate-Capped](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.2c02627?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Colloidal Metal Oxide [Nanocrystals.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.2c02627?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* 2022, *13*, 11323−11329.
- (33) Barducci, A.; Bussi, G.; Parrinello, M. [Well-tempered](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.100.020603) [Metadynamics:](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.100.020603) A smoothly converging and tunable free-energy [method.](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.100.020603) *Phys. Rev. Lett.* 2008, *100*, 020603.
- (34) Winslow, S. W.; Tisdale, W. A.; Swan, J. W. [Prediction](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c03348?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of PbS nanocrystal [superlattice](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c03348?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) structure with large-scale patchy particle [simulations.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c03348?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *J. Phys. Chem. C* 2022, *126*, 14264−14274.
- (35) Qi, X.; Zhao, Y.; Lachowski, K.; Boese, J.; Cai, Y.; Dollar, O.; Hellner, B.; Pozzo, L.; Pfaendtner, J.; Chun, J.; et al. [Predictive](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.1c04923?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) theoretical framework for dynamic control of [bioinspired](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.1c04923?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) hybrid nanoparticle [self-assembly.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.1c04923?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *ACS Nano* 2022, *16*, 1919−1928.
- (36) Iype, E.; Hütter, M.; Jansen, A.; Nedea, S. V.; Rindt, C. [Parameterization](https://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.23246) of a reactive force field using a Monte Carlo [algorithm.](https://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.23246) *J. Comput. Chem.* 2013, *34*, 1143−1154.
- (37) Cosseddu, S.; Infante, I. Force field [parametrization](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.6b01089?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of colloidal CdSe nanocrystals using an adaptive rate Monte Carlo [optimization](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.6b01089?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) [algorithm.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.6b01089?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* 2017, *13*, 297−308.
- (38) Korgel, B. A.; Fullam, S.; Connolly, S.; Fitzmaurice, D. Assembly and [self-organization](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp981598o?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of silver nanocrystal superlattices: Ordered "soft [spheres".](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp981598o?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *J. Phys. Chem. B* 1998, *102*, 8379−8388.

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>(39) Goodfellow, B. W.; Korgel, B. A. [Reversible](https://doi.org/10.1021/nn201273c?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) solvent vapormediated phase changes in nanocrystal [superlattices.](https://doi.org/10.1021/nn201273c?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *ACS Nano* 2011, *5*, 2419−2424.
- (40) Weidman, M. C.; Yager, K. G.; Tisdale, W. A. [Interparticle](https://doi.org/10.1021/cm503626s?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) spacing and structural ordering in [superlattice](https://doi.org/10.1021/cm503626s?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) PbS nanocrystal solids [undergoing](https://doi.org/10.1021/cm503626s?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) ligand exchange. *Chem. Mater.* 2015, *27*, 474−482.
- (41) Geva, N.; Shepherd, J. J.; Nienhaus, L.; Bawendi, M. G.; Van Voorhis, T. [Morphology](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b08413?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of passivating organic ligands around a [nanocrystal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b08413?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *J. Phys. Chem. C* 2018, *122*, 26267−26274.
- (42) Nagaoka, Y.; Zhu, H.; Eggert, D.; Chen, O. [Single-component](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aav0790) [quasicrystalline](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aav0790) nanocrystal superlattices through flexible polygon [tiling](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aav0790) rule. *Science* 2018, *362*, 1396−1400.
- (43) Nagaoka, Y.; Tan, R.; Li, R.; Zhu, H.; Eggert, D.; Wu, Y. A.; Liu, Y.; Wang, Z.; Chen, O. [Superstructures](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-018-0512-5) generated from truncated [tetrahedral](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-018-0512-5) quantum dots. *Nature* 2018, *561*, 378−382.
- (44) Abécassis, B.; Testard, F.; Spalla, O. Gold [nanoparticle](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.100.115504) superlattice [crystallization](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.100.115504) probed in situ. *Phys. Rev. Lett.* 2008, *100*, 115504.
- (45) Geyer, T.; Born, P.; Kraus, T. Switching between [crystallization](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.109.128302) and amorphous [agglomeration](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.109.128302) of alkyl thiol-coated gold nano[particles.](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.109.128302) *Phys. Rev. Lett.* 2012, *109*, 128302.
- (46) Wu, L.; Willis, J. J.; McKay, I. S.; Diroll, B. T.; Qin, J.; Cargnello, M.; Tassone, C. J. [High-temperature](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature23308) crystallization of nanocrystals into [three-dimensional](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature23308) superlattices. *Nature* 2017, *548*, 197−201.
- (47) Abraham, M. J.; Murtola, T.; Schulz, R.; Páll, S.; Smith, J. C.; Hess, B.; Lindahl, E. [GROMACS:](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.softx.2015.06.001) High performance molecular [simulations](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.softx.2015.06.001) through multi-level parallelism from laptops to super[computers.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.softx.2015.06.001) *SoftwareX* 2015, *1*, 19−25.
- (48) Halicioǧlu, T.; Pound, G. [Calculation](https://doi.org/10.1002/pssa.2210300223) of potential energy [parameters](https://doi.org/10.1002/pssa.2210300223) form crystalline state properties. *Phys. Status. Solidi. A* 1975, *30*, 619−623.
- (49) Bussi, G.; Donadio, D.; Parrinello, M. [Canonical](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.2408420) sampling through velocity [rescaling.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.2408420) *J. Chem. Phys.* 2007, *126*, 014101.
- (50) Parrinello, M.; Rahman, A. [Polymorphic](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.328693) transitions in single crystals: A new [molecular](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.328693) dynamics method. *J. Appl. Phys.* 1981, *52*, 7182−7190.
- (51) Burrows, S. A.; Korotkin, I.; Smoukov, S. K.; Boek, E.; Karabasov, S. [Benchmarking](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcb.0c07587?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of molecular dynamics force fields for [solid-liquid](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcb.0c07587?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) and solid-solid phase transitions in alkanes. *J. Phys. Chem. B* 2021, *125*, 5145−5159.
- (52) Kumar, S.; Rosenberg, J. M.; Bouzida, D.; Swendsen, R. H.; Kollman, P. A. The weighted [histogram](https://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.540130812) analysis method for freeenergy calculations on [biomolecules.](https://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.540130812) I. The method. *J. Comput. Chem.* 1992, *13*, 1011−1021.
- (53) Hub, J. S.; De Groot, B. L.; van der Spoel, D. [g\\_wham](https://doi.org/10.1021/ct100494z?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as)−A free weighted histogram analysis [implementation](https://doi.org/10.1021/ct100494z?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) including robust error and [autocorrelation](https://doi.org/10.1021/ct100494z?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) estimates. *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* 2010, *6*, 3713−3720.
- (54) Tribello, G. A.; Bonomi, M.; Branduardi, D.; Camilloni, C.; Bussi, G. [PLUMED](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2013.09.018) 2: New feathers for an old bird. *Comput. Phys. Commun.* 2014, *185*, 604−613.
- (55) Peng, S.; Lee, Y.; Wang, C.; Yin, H.; Dai, S.; Sun, S. A [facile](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-008-8026-3) synthesis of [monodisperse](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-008-8026-3) Au nanoparticles and their catalysis of CO [oxidation.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-008-8026-3) *Nano Res.* 2008, *1*, 229−234.