### Polymer

journal homepage: [www.elsevier.com/locate/polymer](http://www.elsevier.com/locate/polymer)

## Bi-modal polymer networks: Composition-dependent trends in thermal, volumetric and structural properties from molecular dynamics simulation

Timothy W. Sirk a, \* , Mir Karim <sup>b</sup> , Ketan S. Khare b, <sup>1</sup> , Joseph L. Lenhart <sup>a</sup> , Jan W. Andzelm <sup>a</sup> , Rajesh Khare b, \*\*

#### article info

Article history: Received 6 October 2014 Received in revised form 17 December 2014 Accepted 24 December 2014 Available online 31 December 2014

Keywords: Molecular dynamics Mixed network Glass transition

#### abstract

Thermal and volumetric properties of mixed epoxy networks were characterized with molecular dynamics simulation. Atomistically detailed models of epoxy networks of diglycidyl ether of bisphenol (DGEBA) cured with stoichiometric binary mixtures of a flexible cross-linker poly(oxypropylene) diamine (POP) and a stiff cross-linker 4,4<sup>0</sup> -methylenebis(cyclohexylamine) (MCA), having molecular weights of 1987 and 210 g/mol respectively, were prepared. Epoxy networks formed by five different compositions of the cross-linkers ranging from pure POP to pure MCA were constructed, and a network topology analysis was carried out to verify that each network chain was connected to all other chains by a path of bonded molecules. The glass transition temperature (Tg), coefficient of volume thermal expansion (CVTE), heat capacity and thermal conductivity of these network structures were determined as a function of the network composition. The simulated values of these properties are compared with predictions from theories, empirical correlations and experiments from the literature. In general, it is observed that an increase in the mass fraction of MCA leads to an increase in the Tg and a decrease in the CVTE; furthermore, the breadth of the transition as exhibited by the change in the specific volume, CVTE, and heat capacity increases with an increase in the MCA content. The differences in the flexibility of the network components were analyzed using a number of quantitative measures. Using these results, a molecular mechanism is proposed for the observation of the network composition dependence of the breadth of the glass transition in these systems.

© 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

### 1. Introduction

Thermoset epoxy networks comprise a diverse and widelyuseful category of protective and structural materials that must function under extreme temperatures, pressures and strain rates [\[46\].](#page-9-0) Laboratory experiments have closely correlated measurements of ballistic performance with thermal transitions, such as the glass transition [\[1\].](#page-8-0) The characteristic changes across the glass transition, including the thermal, volumetric and mechanical properties, are altered greatly by changing the molecular structure or molecular weight of the constituent epoxy monomer and crosslinker chains. For example, variations of the chain length of the epoxy monomer can result in changes of the glass transition temperature (Tg) of the cross-linked network by more than 100 K [\[2\].](#page-8-0) Epoxy monomers of different backbone stiffness can have a similar effect [\[3,4\]](#page-8-0). As with the epoxy monomer, the chain length [\[5\]](#page-8-0) and the backbone stiffness [\[6\]](#page-8-0) of the cross-linker can be varied causing drastic changes in the themo-mechanical properties of the network. Even subtle changes, such as the use of different positional isomers of the cross-linker can have a profound effect on the thermo-mechanical properties of the cross-linked epoxy. For example, the use of 3,30 -diaminodiphenylsulfone instead of 4,40 diaminodiphenylsulfone was observed to decrease the Tg of the cross-linked network by 47 K, while simultaneously increasing the Young's modulus by about 16% [\[6\]](#page-8-0). Further, cross-linker backbones

<sup>a</sup> Macromolecular Science and Technology Branch, U.S. Army Research Laboratory, Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD, United States

<sup>b</sup> Department of Chemical Engineering, Texas Tech University, Box 43121, Lubbock, TX 79409, United States

<sup>\*</sup> Corresponding author. Present address: TKC Global, 2100 Muir Way, Bel Air, MD, United States.

<sup>\*\*</sup> Corresponding author.

E-mail addresses: [tim.sirk@us.army.mil](mailto:tim.sirk@us.army.mil) (T.W. Sirk), [rajesh.khare@ttu.edu](mailto:rajesh.khare@ttu.edu) (R. Khare).

<sup>1</sup> Present address: Howard P. Isermann Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering and the Center for Biotechnology & Interdisciplinary Studies, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York, United States.

<span id="page-1-0"></span>may be aliphatic, cyclo-aliphatic, or aromatic. Thus, the network properties can be tuned by altering either epoxy monomer chemistry, the cross-linker chemistry, or the composition of the network in a mixed network formed by a mixture of cross-linkers or the epoxy monomer. The last effect, i.e., the effect of network composition on its properties and the underlying molecular mechanisms affecting these changes, is investigated in this work.

For structural applications, the Tg of the network should be well above the highest operational temperature range for the system; However, high values of Tg can lead to brittle failure during mechanical deformations and poor performance during ballistic events. Here, we study the effect of incorporating a flexible spacer unit into a tightly-crosslinked epoxy matrix. Atomistic molecular dynamics simulation are used to understand the network structure and properties of cross-linked epoxy networks composed of diglycidyl ether of bisphenol (DGEBA) cured with stoichiometric binary mixtures of a flexible cross-linker poly(oxypropylene) diamine (POP) and a stiff cross-linker 4,4'-methylenebis(cyclohexylamine) (MCA), which have molecular weights of 1987 and 210 g/ mol respectively. This paper is organized as follows: In Section 2, details of the molecular dynamics simulations are described, including the force field, the method used for the construction of the polymer networks, and the annealing procedure. Section 3 discusses the volumetric and thermal properties as well as the molecular mechanisms underlying the observations; Section [4](#page-8-0) discusses the broader meaning of our results.

#### 2. Simulation details

#### 2.1. Construction of polymer networks

The method used for the construction and equilibration of the epoxy networks is described in detail elsewhere [\[7\]](#page-8-0) and only a short summary will be presented here for the sake of completeness. Atomistic models of fully reacted epoxy networks were created using a simulated annealing polymerization technique applied to polymer networks. For this purpose, stoichometric mixtures were considered for DGEBA monomers with MCA and POP cross-linkers (see Fig. 1). The relative amounts of the two cross-linkers were changed to create systems with different compositions. In particular, we use the parameter x to represent the mole fraction of MCA in the cross-linker mixture. DGEBA was the only epoxy monomer in all cases. Five mixed networks were chosen as x ¼ 0.0,0.2,0.5,0.8,1.0 with each containing approximately 200,000 atoms e see Table 1 for details. Epoxy systems of this size were previously shown to allow accurate calculations of thermodynamic and mechanical properties near the glass transition and in the rubbery states [\[8\].](#page-8-0)

For each composition x, five independent replica structures were created and equilibrated in the rubbery state at 735 K. We

Table 1 Details of the epoxy network systems. The mass fraction of MCA network (xm), number of molecules (N), and number of atoms (n) are shown for each of the mixed networks (x).

| x   | xm    | N-POP | N-MCA | N-DGEBA | n       |
|-----|-------|-------|-------|---------|---------|
| 0.0 | 0.000 | 450   | 0     | 900     | 199,350 |
| 0.2 | 0.077 | 420   | 105   | 1050    | 200,655 |
| 0.5 | 0.250 | 343   | 343   | 1372    | 199,626 |
| 0.8 | 0.572 | 200   | 800   | 2000    | 199,800 |
| 1.0 | 1.000 | 0     | 1360  | 2720    | 189,040 |

apply the GAFF force field [\[9,10\]](#page-8-0) which has performed well in our previous studies of pure thermoset epoxies with similar compositions [\[7,11,12,8,13\].](#page-8-0) Tail corrections [\[14\]](#page-8-0) were applied for the energy and pressure of the Lennard-Jones potential. The partial atomic charges were computed with the AM1-BCC method [\[15,16\]](#page-8-0) and the ParticleeParticle Particle-Mesh (PPPM) method [\[17\]](#page-8-0) was used for electrostatic interactions. All of the simulations were carried out using the LAMMPS package [\[18\].](#page-8-0) The reported results were averaged over the replica structures.

#### 2.2. Characterization of network topology

"Ideal" networks were constructed without loop defects by preventing any pair of monomer and cross-linker molecules from sharing more than one cross-link bond. Also, we verify that a path exists to connect any two molecules in the network by bridging bonded molecules. This degree of connectivity is not guaranteed since molecules in local clusters can, in principle, form cross-links such that molecules become isolated from the larger network. To characterize the network connectivity, we apply a graph theoretical approach where the polymer network is viewed as a graph of molecules (graph nodes) bound by cross-link bonds (graph edges). The most centrally located molecule was found to be separated from all other molecules by, at most, 11.0, 12.0, 12.4, 14.0, and 15.0 cross-link bonds for the mixed networks of x ¼ 0.0,0.2,0.5,0.8,1.0, respectively. The least centrally located molecule was separated from all other molecules by 15.2, 14.8, 16.0, 17.6, and 18.8 crosslinks; fractions result from averaging over five replicas per xvalue. The above measures of centrality correspond to the graph radius and diameter, respectively, and both are infinite in the presence of disconnected nodes [\[19\].](#page-8-0)

#### 3. Results

#### 3.1. Volumetric properties

Following the same protocol as in our previous work [\[8\]](#page-8-0), each of the mixed networks was subjected to stepwise cooling from a temperature (T) of 735 K to 150 K in steps of 15 K per 2.0 ns. The specific volume (y) was averaged over the final 1.0 ns of each temperature step. [Fig. 2](#page-2-0) shows the temperature-dependent volume y(T) of each mixed network. As shown in the figure, the glassy and rubbery states can be identified by linear trends in y(T) in the low and high temperature regions, respectively. These trends can be seen more clearly by inspecting the coefficient of volume thermal expansion,

$$\alpha_V = \left(\frac{1}{v} \frac{dv}{dT}\right)_P. \tag{1}$$

As seen in [Fig. 3,](#page-2-0) three general trends of a<sup>V</sup> are exhibited by each of the networks as temperature decreases: At high temperatures, a<sup>V</sup> is large and constant or weakly increasing; Over an intermediate Fig. 1. Chemical structures of (a) DGEBA (b) POP and (c) MCA. temperature range, a<sup>V</sup> is strongly decreasing; At low temperatures,

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Fig. 2.** Specific volume—temperature diagram for mixed epoxy-amine networks (x). Open circles indicate the value at  $T_g$ . Error bars are in the range of 1e-3 to 3.5e-3 cm<sup>3</sup>/g and 2e-4 to 2.8e-3 cm<sup>3</sup>/g for the compositions x = 0.0 and x = 1.0, respectively, where smaller error values correspond to the glassy state.

 $\alpha_V$  is small and weakly decreasing. We refer to these temperature regions as the rubbery, transition, and glassy regions, respectively. As x increases,  $\alpha_V$  decreases in both the glassy and rubbery regions. This is consistent with experimental and simulation [12,20] studies of epoxy networks which show a decrease in  $\alpha_V$  with increasing cross-link density. The high cross-link density is expected to limit the displacements of chain monomers, and therefore control the expansion of volume in the rubbery region. We note that the slow decrease of  $\alpha_V$  with temperature in the rubbery region is due to the choice of the normalizing volume as v = v(T) in Eq. (1), and this feature may not be observed if the normalizing value is chosen as a

**Fig. 3.** Coefficient of volume thermal expansion  $(\alpha_V)$  for several mixed networks (x) as computed from Eq. (1). Also shown are the  $\alpha_V$  of networks with x=0.0 (dash) and 1.0 (dot-dash) as found by taking  $v=v(T_g)$  in Eq. (1). Open circles indicate the value at  $T_g$ . Error bars range from approximately 5e-5 to 1.2e-5 K<sup>-1</sup>.

constant, as is often the case in experimental reports of volumetric or linear thermal expansion. To illustrate this effect, Fig. 3 also shows the value of  $\alpha_V$  for networks x=0.0 and 1.0 normalized by a constant value of volume, namely,  $v=v(T_g)$ . As seen in the figure, the difference in the two calculations of  $\alpha_V$  is greatest for the networks with the lowest cross-link density (x=0.0) due to the large change of volume in the rubbery state. The volume of networks with higher cross-link density (x=1.0) changes more slowly with temperature and therefore  $\alpha_V$  is less sensitive to the choice of v in this case.

The glass transition regions of the networks presented in Fig. 3 suggest that the breadth of the glass transition increases with increasing values of x, i.e., with increasing MCA content. At the cooling rate employed in our simulations, the glass transition of the network with only MCA amine (x = 1.0) occurred over a broad temperature window of 300 < T<600 K while, for that with only POP amine (x = 0.0), it occurred over a narrower temperature region of 300 < T<450 K. Because the temperatures spanned by the MCA relaxation completely overlap those of the POP relaxation, the glass transition observed in  $\alpha_V$  is broader in mixed networks with higher MCA composition (higher x-values) and narrower in networks with lower MCA composition. The broadening and weakening of the glass transition with increasing cross-link density is also observed in experiments, where some highly cross-linked networks do not exhibit a glass transition [21].

We note that for the purposes of the  $T_g$  calculation, the temperature ranges chosen to compute linear fits to the volume-temperature data are not unique, and the calculated value of the  $T_g$  will exhibit a small variation with the range chosen. In this work, we used the temperature ranges for the rubbery and the glassy states as suggested by the plot of  $\alpha_V$  (Fig. 3). A low temperature range of T < 210 K was chosen for the glassy state, as all of the networks are deep in the glassy region for these temperatures. A high temperature range of T > 585 K was chosen for the rubbery state, since this is along the equilibrium line of all the networks, except x = 1.0; a higher temperature range of T > 675 K was used for x = 1.0.

The computed  $T_g$  values are shown in Fig. 4. The  $T_g$  increases with increasing MCA composition. These results are a consequence

**Fig. 4.** Glass transition temperature as a function of the network composition, where the k parameter of Eq. (2) is evaluated from the Gordon–Taylor equation (GT), the Simha Boyer rule (SB), the Fox equation (FOX), and treated as a fitting parameter (FIT).

<span id="page-3-0"></span>of the increasing cross-link density, and are consistent with experimental studies of epoxy-amine mixed networks [22,23], MD simulation of pure epoxy networks [12], and MD simulations of epoxy curing [24,25]. Furthermore, the computed value of the  $T_g$  (367 K) for the network with only the POP diamine cross-linker (x = 0.0), is about 40 K higher than that reported by one of us for the same system in a previous simulation study [12]. This difference can be attributed to two factors: (1) the system size used in this work is about 11 times larger than that used in the previous study, and (2) the temperature range used to determine the  $T_g$  in this work was chosen from the temperature dependence of  $\alpha_V$  (Fig. 3) and is different than that in the previous work.

The cooling rate used here is on the order of  $10^9$  K/s, or about 10 orders of magnitude faster than typical experimental cooling rates of ~ $10^{-1}$  K/s, thus the values of  $T_g$  from simulation are expected to be significantly higher than those from experiment [26,12,27]. Indeed, the  $T_g$  computed for pure POP-DGEBA (x=0.0) and pure MCA-DGEBA (x=1.0) systems are 138 and 32 K higher, respectively, than the corresponding experimental values reported by Knorr et al. [1]. High cooling rates are difficult to avoid due to the short timescales available to atomistic molecular dynamics simulation; the cooling rate used here is one of the slowest in the current literature of polymer simulations.

The composition-dependence of  $T_g$  from simulation can be compared with predictions from mixing rules which yield the  $T_g$  as a function of the system composition. The  $T_g$  of polymer mixtures can be predicted from mixing rules of the form [28].

$$T_g = \frac{x_{m,1}T_{g,1} + kx_{m,2}T_{g,2}}{x_{m,1} + kx_{m,2}},$$
 (2)

where k is a model parameter and  $x_m$  is the mass fraction. The networks we consider contain two amine cross-linkers with a functionality of four. For the purpose of computing mixture properties, we consider a cross-linker and half of each of the four bonded epoxy monomers to be one component of the mixture. Several variations of Eq. (2) are possible. If the free volumes of the two components are assumed to be additive, Eq. (2) corresponds to Gordon-Taylor equation the widely-used [29].  $k = k_{GT} = (v_2 \Delta \alpha_2)/(v_1 \Delta \alpha_1)$ , and  $\Delta \alpha$  is the difference of the rubbery and glassy coefficients of volume thermal expansion of a pure component. Simha and Boyer [30] established that a wide range of polymers have similar values of  $\Delta \alpha T_g$ , leading to the simplified expression  $k = k_{SB} = v_2 T_{g,1} / v_1 T_{g,2}$ . In the case of equal specific volumes, the fitting parameter can be further simplified as  $k = k_{FOX} = T_{g,1}/T_{g,2}$  and the Fox equation [31] is recovered,

$$\frac{1}{T_g} = \frac{x_{m,1}}{T_{g,1}} + \frac{x_{m,2}}{T_{g,2}}. (3)$$

We compare these mixing rules with our data for  $T_g(x_m)$  where k is taken as  $k_{GT_i}k_{SB_i}k_{FOX_i}$ , and as a numerically fitted parameter  $k_{FIT}$ . The resulting values were  $k_{GT}=0.77$ ,  $k_{SB}=0.80$ ,  $k_{FOX}=0.78$  and  $k_{FIT}=0.59$ . (In the calculation of  $k_{GT_i}$   $\Delta\alpha$  was determined by averaging  $\alpha_V$  over the glassy and rubbery temperature ranges.) As seen in Fig. 4,  $k_{FIT}$  leads to good agreement with values of  $T_g$  from the simulation data, while the predictions of the Gordon—Taylor and Fox equations of  $T_g$  are slightly larger than the data points for two of the three network mixtures. This may be due in part to the large error of  $T_g$  for  $T_g$  and  $T_g$  relative to the other compositions. Alternatively, an over-prediction of  $T_g(T_g)$  by the Gordon—Taylor equation and its simplifications can be caused by a change of interactions (such as H-bonding) between the two components. We note that mixed networks with cross-linkers of a similar chemical composition can show good agreement with mixing rules. For example,

McAninch et al. [23] studied experiments of epoxy-amine mixed networks composed of DGEBA monomers and POP diamine cross-linkers, where the POP cross-linkers differed only by molecular weight. Their results indicated that mixed networks and pure components with the same average molecular weight of POP cross-linker had similar values of  $T_g$  and good agreement was observed with the Fox equation.

#### 3.2. Thermal properties

The constant pressure specific heat capacity was evaluated from the temperature-dependent enthalpy as  $c_p(T) = (\partial h/\partial T)_p$ . The results for each mixed network are shown in Fig. 5. At high temperatures (T > 660 K), the heat capacity of each mixed network is approximately constant. Upon cooling, the  $c_p$  of all mixed networks increases and reaches a maximum, except for x = 1.0, for which  $c_p$  monotonically decreases with cooling. As the temperature is further lowered below the  $T_g$ , the  $c_p$  shows a rapid decrease until reaching the glassy state, where it decreases slowly and smoothly.

We note that the specific heat capacity values of epoxy networks as determined from DSC experiments are in the range 1.0-3.0 J/ (gK) [32], while the values reported here are in the range 4.0–4.7 J/ (gK). Overestimation of  $c_p$  is an expected limitation of atomistic force fields, where the covalent bonds of hydrogen atoms are considered as classical harmonic oscillators that exchange energy with other molecular degrees of freedom. Such interactions are unlikely in experiment due to the quantized nature of bond energies. In experiments, the scale of vibrational energies is typically much greater than that of thermal energy  $(\hbar\omega/2\pi\gg k_BT)$  and large gaps exist in the energy levels of bond vibration [33,34]. Although corrective terms [35] can be subtracted from  $c_p$  to account for the classical nature of bonds, we have chosen not to do so and acknowledge this effect as a limitation of calculating the heat capacity of hydrogen-containing materials using classical molecular dynamics. Nonetheless, the change of the heat capacity across the glass transition ( $\Delta c_p$ ) can be computed and compared with experiments. Here we assume that the changes of  $c_p$  in the glassy and rubbery states are small compared with the changes across the glass transition; we therefore take  $\Delta c_p$  as the difference between

**Fig. 5.** Specific heat capacity  $(c_p)$  as a function of temperature (T) and the cross-linker composition (x).

the minimum and maximum  $c_p$  for each curve of Fig. 5. The values of  $\Delta c_p$  were found to be in the range of 0.37–0.47 J/(gK) for x=0.0, 0.2, 0.5, and 0.8. A similar value of  $\Delta c_p=0.434$  J/(gK) was found by Lee and McKenna [5] for a DGEBA-POP epoxy network corresponding to x=0.0. Further,  $\Delta c_p$  is reported to be insensitive to changes in cross-link density [5], thus it is not surprising that the POP-containing networks considered here have similar values of  $\Delta c_p$ .

The thermal conductivity and the related quantity thermal diffusivity govern the rate at which heat can be transported through the system. To isolate the effect of the network chain structure, the thermal conductivity  $\kappa$  was evaluated for the pure networks of x=0.0 and x=1.0. For both networks, we use the Green-Kubo (G-K) relations [36,37] to compute  $\kappa$  deep in the glassy state (150 K) where chain-level motion is suppressed and the network properties are dominated by fast segmental relaxations. The G-K relations are a well-known set of formula relating microscopic fluxes at equilibrium conditions to transport properties. Although these relations are strictly valid only in systems at equilibrium, we deem their use as good approximation since the glassy states considered here are stable and are not subject to significant aging on the timescale of our simulations. We evaluate the thermal conductivity as

$$\kappa = \frac{1}{3k_B T^2 V} \int_{0}^{\infty} C(t) dt \tag{4}$$

where T, V,  $k_B$ , are the kinetic temperature, volume, and Boltzmann constant, respectively, and C is the autocorrelation function of the time-dependent heat flux J computed as  $C(t) = \langle J(0)J(t) \rangle$ . As described elsewhere [38], the heat flux was computed from the atomistic interactions, including the long-range Coulombic contributions. The heat autocorrelation function (HACF) was truncated at 3.0 ps, and averaged over 15,000 independent correlations taken from 3 Cartesian directions and five replica structures. The averaged HACFs are shown in Fig. 6. The HACF of both networks shows strong positive and negative oscillations at short times, which are typical of flexible molecules, followed by a gradual decay to zero;

**Fig. 6.** Heat autocorrelation function of the networks with x = 0.0 (green) and x = 1.0 (dash-black). (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)

however, the HACF for the network with only POP cross-linkers (x=0.0) decayed more slowly than those with only MCA (x=1.0). The thermal conductivities are estimated from Eq. (4) as  $0.30\pm0.02$  and  $0.38\pm0.02$  W/(mK) for networks of composition x=0.0 and x=1.0, respectively. These values are similar to those obtained from previous simulations of cross-linked DETDA-DGEBA [39] (0.31 W/(mK)) and DDS-DGEBA [40,41] (0.24 W/(mK)) and 0.28 W/(mK)). To understand the molecular contributions to the thermal conductivity, it is useful to compute the frequency-dependence of  $\kappa$  as

$$\kappa(\omega) = \frac{\text{Re}\left\{\widehat{C}(\omega)\right\}}{3k_{B}T^{2}V} \tag{5}$$

where the function Re{} extracts the real part of the Fouriertransformed HACF,  $\hat{C}$ . As shown in Fig. 7, several high frequency peaks are present in the thermal conductivity. These peaks can be associated with fast molecular modes by a simple estimate of the natural frequency from inter-molecular potential functions, such as C–H harmonic bond stretching ( $\omega = \sqrt{k/m_H}/2\pi \approx 87$  THz), asymmetric C-H stretching ( $2\omega$ =174 THz) and non-bonded Lennard-Jones collisions (e.g., for C–C  $\omega = \sqrt{\partial^2 \Phi_{IJ}/\partial r^2}/2\pi \approx 20$  THz) The fast vibrational modes are similar for both networks. However, the presence of POP cross-linkers (x = 0.0) resulted in much greater contributions to the low frequency range compared to MCA crosslinkers (x = 1.0). Because both systems are deep in the glassy state, it is unlikely that these low frequency modes are the result of long length scale cooperative inter-chain motions; rather, we attribute these differences to enhanced intra-chain heat transport resulting from the more regular structure of the POP cross-linker as well as the availability of longer intra-chain paths in POP.

The thermal diffusivity  $(\alpha_T)$  is useful for estimating the time scale for heat transport by conduction across a given material. We compute  $\alpha_T$  as

$$\alpha_T = \frac{\kappa v}{c_n}.$$
(6)

Evaluating Eq. (6) at 150 K leads to  $\alpha_T = 6.4 \cdot 10^{-4}$  and  $8.5 \cdot 10^{-4}$  cm<sup>2</sup>/s for networks of x = 0.0 and x = 1.0, respectively.

**Fig. 7.** Frequency-dependent thermal conductivity of mixed networks x = 0.0 (green) and x = 1.0 (dash-black). (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)

<span id="page-5-0"></span>These values are in line with the expected values of  $\sim 10^{-3}$  cm<sup>2</sup>/s for epoxy networks [42].

# 3.3. Molecular origins of the observed volumetric and thermal behavior

At a given temperature, the volumetric and thermal properties of the mixed networks were sensitive to the cross-linker composition. Each of our systems had the same DGEBA monomer, thus we attribute the observed property changes to the differences in the molecular structure, i.e., to the differences in the length and stiffness of the two cross-linkers. In this section, we compare the structural features of the two limiting cases of the network mixtures, x = 0.0 and x = 1.0. Unless stated otherwise, the analysis given here considers 100 simulation snapshots in 5 replica in either the glassy state (195 K) or the rubbery state (735 K).

We first compare the radial distribution functions of amine nitrogen as found in the glassy and rubbery states for purely MCA (x = 1.0) and POP (x = 0.0) cross-linkers. As shown in Fig. 8, systems with purely MCA cross-linkers have a structured RDF, with two well-defined peaks at 6.6 and 10.7 Å followed by a broad peak at 15.8 Å. Upon heating across the glass transition, the first peak of the RDF shifted to a marginally greater distance (7.2 Å) while the second peak is effectively fixed. To interpret these results in terms of the network structure, we computed the end-to-end distance of MCA and DGEBA from the separation of the two terminal heavy atoms as 10.7 and 13.2 Å, respectively. These results are a good match to the second and third peaks of the nitrogen—nitrogen RDF, thus we assign these peaks to nitrogen bridged by the MCA and DGEBA chains, respectively. Further, we confirm the assignment of the second peak by recomputing the RDF while disregarding those nitrogen occurring on the same MCA molecule (see inset of Fig. 8); the difference of the two RDF calculations clearly indicate the presence of intra-MCA nitrogen. Interestingly, the first peak of the RDF is due to nitrogen atoms that are not directly bound by network chains. Upon visual inspection of the network, we indeed observe a tendency of cross-links to form spatial clusters. A snapshot of a

**Fig. 8.** Radial distribution function (RDF) for amine nitrogen—nitrogen distances in networks of purely POP (x=0.0) and MCA (x=1.0) cross-linkers. Inset: RDF for amine nitrogen—nitrogen in x=1.0 networks, where inter-molecular nitrogen (solid) and all nitrogen (dash) are considered.

representative pair of network junctions is shown in Fig. 9a, where the inter-molecular nitrogen (blue spheres) are separated only by about 7 Å. The observed segregation of cross-linkers is highly interesting, as such local heterogeneity of thermoset networks is known to influence transport and the mechanical properties on larger length-scales. We speculate that the highly polar nature of the cross-linking atoms (relative to other atoms in the network) creates this 'phase separation' of atoms on sub-molecular length scales.

The RDF for systems with only POP cross-linkers shows two well-defined peaks occurring at short (r = 6.1 Å) and long range (r = 15.1 Å) in the glassy state. Increasing the temperature above the glass transition results in a small shift of the first peak of the RDF from 6.1 to 6.5 Å, and a larger shift of the second peak from 15.1 to 17.2 Å. As before, we computed the end-to-end distance in the rubber state, which resulted in values of 13.8 and 32.4 Å for DGEBA and POP, respectively, and use these values to assign meaning to peaks in the RDF. The second broad peak is a good match to the end-to-end distance of DGEBA, thus we attribute this peak to the nitrogen bridged by DGEBA chains. The intra-molecular nitrogen in POP chains could not be identified in the RDF. As discussed below, the POP chains in this study are highly flexible and we therefore do not expect a strongly structured nitrogen-POP-nitrogen network connection. Finally, the first peak in the RDF can be attributed to nitrogen that are not directly bridged by network chains; a representative pair of POP cross-link junctions are shown in Fig. 9b.

The trends of end-to-end distance were similar to those of the RDF; upon heating from the glassy to the rubbery state, we found the end-to-end distance of POP to change from 29.8 to 32.4 Å while MCA was fixed at 10.7 Å. For DGEBA, the end-to-end distance increased with both types of cross-linkers, i.e., from 13.3 to 13.8 Å for purely POP and 12.9 to 13.2 Å for purely MCA cross-linkers.

**Fig. 9.** Snapshots of representative network junctions defined by amine nitrogen (blue). (a) Network junctions of purely MCA cross-linkers (red) with DGEBA monomers (green). (b) Network junctions of purely POP cross-linkers (red, orange) with DGEBA (green). (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)

The stiffness of POP chains can be understood by finding the length over which the direction of the tangent of the chain contour becomes uncorrelated, i.e., by measuring the persistence length  $l_p$ . Chains having a length near  $l_p$  are expected to be rod-like while those much greater than  $l_p$  are flexible. We consider the orientation of each POP repeat unit by defining a vector from the ether oxygen to carbon (see Fig. 10a), then computing the angle  $\theta$  each vector forms with other vectors in the same chain. From the results presented in Fig. 11, it is clear that maximum flexibility, as measured by the decay of  $\langle \cos \theta \rangle$ , is achieved as the chain length is increased from one to approximately ten segments. The total length of all POP chains considered here was 33 segments, thus we expect POP to behave as a flexible network chain. For polymers acting as wormlike chains,  $\langle \cos \theta \rangle$  is predicted to decay exponentially with a characteristic length of  $l_n$  [43]; However, we find better agreement for our network chains by fitting to a more general stretched exponential,

$$\langle \cos(\theta) \rangle = exp \left[ \left( \frac{-n}{L} \right)^{\beta} \right],$$
 (7)

where n, L, and  $\beta$  are the number of chain segments, decay length and stretching exponent, respectively. An excellent numerical fit to Eq. (7) was obtained with the parameters  $\beta$ =0.607 and L=0.728 (see Fig. 11). We take  $l_p$  as the mean relaxation length of Eq. (7), found from the stretched exponential as

$$l_p = \frac{L}{\beta} \Gamma\left(\frac{1}{\beta}\right),\tag{8}$$

where  $\Gamma$  is the gamma function. Thus, from Eq. (8), the persistence length of POP is only ~ 1.1 segments.

The structure and molecular weight of the other two network chains, MCA and DGEBA, is such that their flexibility cannot be captured by the persistence length. To directly compare all three molecules, we describe the configuration of each molecule with two vectors as shown in Fig. 10b—d, then monitor the orientation of these vectors during simulations in the rubbery state. The mean vector angles for POP, MCA, and DGEBA were measured as 89, 132 and 107°, respectively. As shown in Fig. 12, the distribution of angles

**Fig. 10.** Intra-molecular vectors used in the analysis of network chains. (a) oxygen—carbon vector in POP, where one vector is assigned to each repeat unit, (b) oxygen—nitrogen vector in POP, where the ether oxygen in the 17th of 33 repeat units is selected, (c) carbon—nitrogen vector in MCA, and (d) carbon—carbon vector in DGEBA.

**Fig. 11.** Orientation of segment angles  $(\theta)$  along the POP chains in POP-DGEBA networks (x=0.0).

was broadest for POP as would be expected for a flexible chain. We note that POP chains are unlikely to stretch such that the vector angle approaches 180°, as these chains are not fully extended in the network. Both DGEBA and MCA are similar in that their angle distributions are much narrower than POP; however, the full width at half maximum was about a factor of two larger for DGBEA (47°) compared with MCA (20°), thus the chain ends of DGEBA were better able to flex relative to the center of the molecule as compared with those of MCA. This flexibility of DGEBA relative to MCA is likely reflected in the RDF of the pure MCA system (Fig. 8), where the peak attributed to DGEBA is broader than that of MCA and shifts with temperature while the one associated with MCA is effectively fixed.

We further quantified the extensional conformational changes of POP, MCA and DGEBA using the mass-weighted gyration tensor *S*, computed as

$$S_{pq} = \frac{1}{\sum m_i} \sum_{i=0}^{N} m_i \left( r_p^{(i)} - r_{cm,p} \right) \left( r_q^{(i)} - r_{cm,q} \right). \tag{9}$$

where p and q are the Cartesian position components,  $m_i$  is the mass of atom i, and  $r_{cm}$  is the coordinate of the chain center of mass.

**Fig. 12.** Vector angle distribution of POP, MCA and DGEBA. The results shown for DGEBA are taken from systems with x=1.0; results were similar for x=0.0 (not shown).

For this analysis, we evaluated eigenvalues of the gyration tensor for each monomer and cross-linker as a function of the temperature. We considered 40 temperature points in the range of 150-735 K, where five snapshots of coordinates were analyzed at each temperature. The temperature-dependent behavior of the three molecules can be demonstrated by use of the largest eigenvalue of S, denoted here as  $\lambda^2$ , which serves as a measure of the longest axis of the chain. As shown in Fig. 13,  $\lambda^2$  of POP molecules increases strongly with an increase in the temperature, while MCA and DGEBA molecules maintained effectively the same value of  $\lambda^2$ over the entire temperature range studied. To further investigate this behavior, we considered the distribution of  $\lambda^2$  deep in the glassy state (150 K) and in the rubbery state (735 K). The distributions corresponding to POP, MCA and DGEBA are shown in Fig. 14. DGBEA and MCA have narrow distributions both below and above the glass transition temperature; these narrow distributions reflect the small molecular weight of MCA and stiffness of the phenyl rings. In contrast, the distribution for POP both broadens considerably and shifts to larger values at high temperature.

Taken together, we interpret the results of the RDF, end-to-end distance, persistence length, and gyration tensor as demonstrating the elongation of POP chain coils and, to a lesser extent, DGEBA molecules upon heating. The POP molecules studied here can be considered as fully flexible, and their relatively large extension between cross-linking sites during heating (as measured by changes in end-to-end distance) enables POP networks to accommodate large volume changes. In contrast, networks with MCA cross-linkers must rely on the DGEBA monomer to provide volume changes during thermal expansion.

The conformational differences of POP and MCA chains also provide insight into their differing behavior of  $c_p(T)$  at high temperature. As shown in Fig. 5,  $c_p(T)$  monotonically decreases with decreasing temperature for the short MCA cross-linkers, but a peak is present for longer POP cross-linkers. Peaks in the heat capacity near  $T_g$  are well-known in experimental measurements using differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and were also previously observed in molecular dynamics simulations of polymers [44]. In experimental DSC measurements, a peak in  $c_p$  is observed for crystalline polymers undergoing phase change and for glass-

**Fig. 13.** Change of  $\lambda^2$  relative to the value at 150 K ( $\Delta\lambda^2$ ) for POP, MCA and DGEBA.

**Fig. 14.** Histogram of the largest eigenvalue (Å<sup>2</sup>) of the gyration tensor for (a) DGEBA (b) MCA and (c) POP for glassy (150 K, blue) and rubbery states (735 K, red). Results for DGEBA molecules are similar for networks with x = 0.0 (shown) and x = 1.0 (not shown). (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)

formers that are cooled slowly into the glassy state, followed by rapid heating to temperatures above the glass transition. The latter phenomenon has been attributed to the presence of superheated glass at temperatures above  $T_g$  during the heating scan [45].

The trends of  $c_p(T)$  that we observe cannot be due to these effects, as they occur in the absence of crystallization (i.e., along the equilibrium line of the v-T diagram) during a cooling scan. Thus, the behavior of  $c_p$  in the mixed networks x=0.0-0.8 is best explained as a result of decreasing heat capacity at high temperatures in the rubbery state. Here, we suggest that the extension of cross-linker chains leads to significant entropic changes in networks containing POP, thereby reducing the heat capacity. As indicated by the Maxwell relation  $\partial c_p/\partial T = T(\partial^2 s/\partial T^2)_p + (\partial s/\partial T)_p$ , the heat capacity is reduced if the entropy change is negative with increasing

<span id="page-8-0"></span>temperature and second order effects are small. In our systems, the entropic contributions from soft internal degrees of freedom in POP may be reduced at high temperatures where the chains take on a stretched configuration, and conversely internal degrees of freedom recovered as the temperature is lowered. In contrast, the results of the RDF, vector distributions, and radius of gyration have shown that the stiffness of the MCA structure allows comparatively few temperature-dependent conformational changes; therefore, the observation that the heat capacity of MCA is approximately constant for temperatures above the Tg is expected. Below the Tg, restrictions are imposed on chain-level motions such that conformational entropy is small for both of the cross-linkers.

#### 4. Conclusions

We have built detailed atomistic models of cross-linked networks formed by the epoxy monomer DGEBA and a mixture of two cross-linkers, a flexible POP and a stiff MCA. Mixed networks of five compositions were prepared by varying the relative amounts of POP and MCA. An analysis of the network topology was performed to ensure that no local clusters exist, i.e., that all network junctions in the system were connected by a path spanning bonded molecules. The model structures were analyzed to determine a number of volumetric and thermal properties as a function of the network composition: volume-temperature behavior across the glass transition, the glass transition temperature, the coefficient of volume thermal expansion, the heat capacity and the thermal conductivity. These simulated values were determined solely by the network topology and the intermolecular interactions in these systems. The values of Tg determined from simulations were compared with those predicted by a mixing rule, theories from the literature, and experiments.

Our results, especially for the volumetric thermal expansion and heat capacity, show a general trend that as the system temperature is lowered, the transition from the rubbery to the glassy values is sharper for systems with a higher fraction of the flexible crosslinker POP, while the transition is weaker and broader for the systems with the higher fraction of the stiff cross-linker MCA. The origin of this behavior was traced to differences in the flexibility of the cross-linker molecules. Specifically, it was determined through a number of quantitative measures that the POP molecule exhibited a significant size change with temperature, whereas DGEBA showed a smaller size change and the MCA molecule did not exhibit any size change with temperature. As a result, the networks consisting of only MCA cross-linkers must rely solely on the DGEBA molecules to accommodate the large volume change experienced at temperatures above the glass transition, thus resulting in a broader transition. Our results show that the flexibility of the crosslinker has a significant effect on the thermal and volumetric properties of the cross-linked network, especially on the breadth of the glass transition. It is expected that this molecular characteristic will also cause a significant impact on the mechanical properties of these network systems; this study will be the topic of a forthcoming publication.

#### Acknowledgments

The authors thank Sindee Simon for insightful discussions on the temperature dependence of the heat capacity. The work of MK, KSK, and RK was supported by U.S. Army/Battelle Memorial Institute contract number US0010000287704. The research reported in this document was also performed in connection with contract/ instrument W911QX-14-C-0016 with the U.S. Army Research Laboratory.

#### Appendix A. Supplementary data

Supplementary data related to this article can be found at [http://](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2014.12.057) [dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2014.12.057.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2014.12.057)

#### References

- [1] [Knorr DB, Yu JH, Richardson AD, Hindenland MD, McAninch IM, Scala JL, et al.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref1) [Glass transition dependence of ultrahigh strain rate response in amine cured](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref1) [epoxy resins. Polymer 2012;53:5917](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref1)e[23](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref1).
- [2] [Plazek D, Choy I. The physical properties of bisphenol-a-based epoxy resins](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref2) [during and after curing. ii. creep behavior above and below the glass transi](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref2)[tion temperature. J Polym Sci Part B Polym Phys 1989;27\(2\):307](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref2)e[24.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref2)
- [3] [Sasuga T, Udagawa A. Molecular motion of several epoxy resins and in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref3)fluence [of electron irradiation. Polymer 1991;32\(3\):402](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref3)e[8.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref3)
- [4] [Dai1 Z, Li Y, Yang S, Zong C, Lu X, Xu J. Preparation, curing kinetics, and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref4) thermal properties of bisphenol fl[uorene epoxy resin. J Appl Polym Sci](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref4) [2007;106\(3\):1476](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref4)e[81.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref4)
- [5] [Lee A, McKenna G. Effect of crosslink density on physical ageing of epoxy](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref5) [networks. Polymer 1988;29:1812.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref5)
- [6] [Grillet AC, Galy J, Gerard J-F, Pascault J-P. Mechanical and viscoelastic prop](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref6)[erties of epoxy networks cured with aromatic diamines. Polymer](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref6) [1991;32\(10\):1885](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref6)e[91.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref6)
- [7] [Lin PH, Khare R. Macromolecules 2009;42\(12\):4319](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref7)e[27](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref7).
- [8] [Sirk T, Khare K, Kiram M, Lenhart J, Andzelm J, McKenna G, et al. High strain](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref8) [rate mechanical properties of a cross-linked epoxy across the glass transition.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref8) [Polymer 2013;54\(26\):7048](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref8)e[57](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref8).
- [9] [Wang J, Wolf RM, Caldwell JW, Kollman PA, Case DA. J Comp Chem](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref9) [2004;25\(9\):1157](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref9)e[74](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref9).
- [10] [Wang J, Wang W, Kollman PA, Case DA. J Mol Graph Modell 2006;25\(2\):](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref10) [247](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref10)e[60.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref10)
- [11] [Lin P, Khare R. Local chain dynamics and dynamic heterogeneity in cross](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref11)[linked epoxy in the vicinity of glass transition. Macromolecules](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref11) [2010;43\(15\):6505](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref11)e[10](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref11).
- [12] [Soni N, Lin P-H, Khare R. Effect of cross-linker length on the thermal and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref12) [volumetric properties of cross-linked networks: a molecular dynamics study.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref12) [Polymer 2012;53:1015](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref12)e[9](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref12).
- [13] [Khare K, Khare R. Directed diffusion approach for preparing atomistic models](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref13) [of crosslinked epoxy for use in molecular simulations. Macromol Theory](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref13) [Simul 2012;21\(5\):322](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref13)e[7](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref13).
- [14] [Sun H. J Phys Chem B 1998;102\(38\):7338](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref14)e[64.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref14)
- [15] [Jakalian A, Bush BL, Jack DB, Bayly CI. J Comput Chem 2000;21\(2\):132](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref15)e[46.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref15)
- [16] [Jakalian A, Jack DB, Bayly CI. J Comput Chem 2002;23\(16\):1623](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref16)e[41](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref16).
- [17] [Hockney RW, Eastwood JW. Computer simulation using particles. Institue of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref17) [Physics Publishing; 1988.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref17)
- [18] [Plimpton SJ. Fast parallel algorithms for short-range molecular dynamics.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref18) [J Comput Phys 1995;117:1](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref18)e[19](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref18).
- [19] [West DB. Introduction to graph theory. 2nd ed. Prentice-Hall; 2000](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref19).
- [20] [Bandyopadhyay A, Odegard G. Molecular modeling of crosslink distribution in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref20) [epoxy polymers. Model Simul Mater Sci Eng 2012;20:045018.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref20)
- [21] [Ward IM. Mechanical properties of solid polymers. 2nd ed. John Wiley and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref21) [Sons; 1990.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref21)
- [22] [MacKenzie SJ, Mulkern TJ, Tan NCB. Material properties of bi-modal epoxy](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref22) [networks. U.S. Army Technicial Report. 2001. ARL](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref22)e[TR](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref22)e[2413.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref22)
- [23] [Mcaninch I, Palmese G, Lenhart J, Scala JL. Characterization of epoxies cured](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref23) [with bimodal blends of polyetheramines. J Appl Polym Sci 2013;130\(3\):](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref23) [1621](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref23)e[31.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref23)
- [24] [Yang S, Qu J. Computing thermomechanical properties of crosslinked epoxy](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref24) [by molecular dynamic simulations. Polymer 2012;53\(21\):4806](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref24)e[17.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref24)
- [25] [Shenogina NB, Tsige M, Patnaik SS, Mukhopadhyay SM. Molecular modeling](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref25) [approach to prediction of thermo-mechanical behavior of thermoset polymer](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref25) [networks. Macromolecules 2013;45\(12\):5307](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref25)e[15](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref25).
- [26] Soldera A, Metatla N. Glass transition of polymers: atomistic simulation versus experiments. Phys Rev E 2006;74:061803. [http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/Phys-](http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevE.74.061803)[RevE.74.061803](http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevE.74.061803). <http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevE.74.061803>.
- [27] [Ferry J. Viscoelastic properties of polymers. 3rd ed. Wiley; 1980.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref27)
- [28] [Pinal R. Entropy of mixing and the glass transition of amorphous mixtures.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref28) [Entropy 2008;10\(3\):207](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref28)e[23](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref28).
- [29] [Gordon M, Taylor JS. Ideal copolymers and the second-order transitions of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref29) [synthetic rubbers. i. non-crystalline copolymers. J Appl Chem 1953;2\(9\):](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref29) [493](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref29)e[500.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref29)
- [30] [Simha R, Boyer F. J Chem Phys 1962;37:1003](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref30).
- [31] Fox TG. Infl[uence of diluent and of copolymer composition on the glass](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref31) [temperature of a polymer system. Bull Am Chem Soc 1956;1\(2\):123.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref31)
- [32] [Li C, Medvedev G, Lee E-W, Kim J, Caruthers J, Strachan A. Molecular dynamics](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref32) [simulations and experimental studies of the thermomechanical response of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref32) [an epoxy thermoset polymer. Polymer 2012;53:4222](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref32)e[30.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref32)
- [33] [Tironia IG, Brunneb RM, van Gunsterena WF. On the relative merits of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref33) flexible [versus rigid models for use in computer simulations of molecular liquids.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref33) [Chem Phys Lett 1996;250\(1\):19](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref33)e[24.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref33)
- [34] [Algaer E, Muller-Plathe F. Molecular dynamics calculations of the thermal](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref34) [conductivity of molecular liquids, polymers, and carbon nanotubes. Soft Mater](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref34) [2012;10\(1](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref34)e[3\):42](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref34)e[80.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref34)

- <span id="page-9-0"></span>[35] [Glattli A, Daura X, van Gunsteren WF. Derivation of an improved simple point](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref35) [charge model for liquid water: Spc/a and spc/l. J Chem Phys 2002;116:9811.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref35)
- [36] [Green MS. Markoff random processes and the statistical mechanics of time](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref36)[dependent phenomena. ii. irreversible processes in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref36) fluids. J Chem Phys [1954;22:398](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref36)e[413](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref36).
- [37] [Kubo R. Statistical-mechanical theory of irreversible processes. i. general](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref37) [theory and simple applications to magnetic and conduction problems. J Phys](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref37) [Soc Jpn 1957;12:570](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref37)e[86](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref37).
- [38] [Sirk T, Moore S, Brown E. Characteristics of thermal conductivity in classical](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref38) [water models. J Chem Phys 2013;138:064505.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref38)
- [39] [Varshney V, Patnaik S, Roy A, Farmer B. Heat transport in epoxy networks: a](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref39) [molecular dynamics study. Polymer 2009;50:3378](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref39)e[85.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref39)
- [40] [Kumar A, Sundararaghavan V, Browning A. Study of temperature dependence of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref40) [thermal conductivity in cross-linked epoxies using molecular dynamics simula](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref40)[tions with long range interactions. Model Simul Mater Sci Eng 2014;22:025013](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref40).
- [41] [Khare K, Khabaz F, Khare R. Effect of carbon nanotube functionalization on](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref41) [mechanical and thermal properties of cross-linked epoxy carbon nanotube](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref41) [nanocomposites: role of strengthening the interfacial interactions. ACS Appl](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref41) [Mater Interfaces 2014;6:6098](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref41)e[110](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref41).
- [42] [Ashby MF. Overview no. 80 on the engineering properties of materials](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref42) [1989;37\(5\):1273](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref42)e[93.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref42)
- [43] [Doi M, Edwards SF. The theory of polymer dynamics. Clarendon Press; 1986](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref43).
- [44] [Baljon A, Weert MV, DeGraaff R, Khare R. Glass transition behavior of polymer](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref44) fi[lms of nanoscopic dimensions. Macromolecules 2005;38:2391](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref44)e[9](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref44).
- [45] [Moynihan CT. Assignment of the glass transition. American Society for Testing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref45) [and Materials.; 1994](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref45).
- [46] [Masser Kevin A, Knorr Daniel B, Hindenlang Mark D, Yu Jian H,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref46) [Richardson Adam D, Strawhecker Kenneth E, et al. Relating structure and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref46) [chain dynamics to ballistic performance in transparent epoxy networks](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref46) [exhibiting nanometer scale heterogeneity. Polymer 2015;58:96](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref46)e[106](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0032-3861(14)01157-4/sref46).