Contents lists available at [ScienceDirect](http://www.elsevier.com/locate/eml)

# Extreme Mechanics Letters

journal homepage: [www.elsevier.com/locate/eml](http://www.elsevier.com/locate/eml)

# WebNet: A biomateriomic three-dimensional spider web neural net

Eric L. Buehler [a](#page-0-0) , Isabelle Su [b](#page-0-1) , Markus J. Buehler [b](#page-0-1),[∗](#page-0-2)

- <span id="page-0-0"></span>a *Spofford Pond School, 31 Spofford Rd, Boxford, MA 01921, USA*
- <span id="page-0-1"></span>b *Laboratory for Atomistic and Molecular Mechanics (LAMM), Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, MA 02139, USA*

# a r t i c l e i n f o

*Article history:* Received 20 July 2020 Accepted 26 September 2020 Available online 2 November 2020

*Keywords:* Web Spider Biomateriomics Biology Mechanics Modeling

## a b s t r a c t

Spiders, silks and webs are abundant in most ecosystems, suggesting that they are a significant evolutionary success. The structures they build – in particular various forms of webs – have intrigued engineers for a long time, and elucidated inspiration for new mechanical designs of *de novo* materials. Here we report the development of a biomateriomic neural network based constitutive model to describe the mechanical features, such as strength and toughness, of a 3D spider web depending on salient structural features, specifically: average fiber lengths, fiber orientations, web connectivity, and web density. In particular, we focus our study on the structural and mechanical properties of a *Cyrtophora citricola* spider web, and report a method to derive the neural net model directly from the experimental–computational mesoscale modeling, using a novel data augmentation method. Our machine learning model captures the complex biomateriomical mechanics of spider webs. More generally, approaches such as reported here can be useful to describe the intricate relationships in other hierarchical materials, and provide a basis to develop multiscale models, and bridge experimental data with computational and theoretical modeling efforts.

© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

### **1. Introduction**

Spiders, silks and webs are abundant in most ecosystems, showing that they are a significant evolutionary success, and an example of a superb hierarchical biomaterial [[1–](#page-8-0)[7](#page-8-1)]. Their success has inspired numerous applications in a broad range of disciplines, such as structural engineering [[8\]](#page-8-2), art [[9\]](#page-8-3), biomedicine [\[10,](#page-8-4) [11](#page-8-5)], and music [\[12](#page-8-6)[–14](#page-8-7)]. Spiders' prosperity is in part due to the exceptional mechanical and biological properties of silks and spider webs. Silks' superior strength, toughness, and robustness originate from its hierarchical structure that ranges from protein chain to macro-scale spider webs [\[15–](#page-8-8)[17](#page-8-9)]. Spiders survived for millions of years by adapting to their environment and building different web architectures that vary from minimalist T webs, to typical 2D orb webs, to more complex 3D cobwebs and sheet webs [\[18](#page-8-10)[,19\]](#page-8-11). Spider silks and webs are resilient and robust against natural threats, as they can still carry out their natural functions, such as catching prey, protecting against predators, and mating despite being rarely found intact [\[20\]](#page-8-12), while using their webs as high-resolution vibrational sensors, extending their body [[21](#page-9-0)[,22\]](#page-9-1). Understanding the relation between nonlinear behavior of silk and complex 3D spider web architectures could inspire 3D web-inspired high-performance and lightweight fiber

*E-mail address:* [mbuehler@mit.edu](mailto:mbuehler@mit.edu) (M.J. Buehler).

network structures, or provide us with increased understanding of signal transduction in fiber networks.

Here we report the development of a neural network based constitutive model to describe the mechanical features, such as strength and toughness, of a 3D spider web depending on salient structural features, specifically: average fiber lengths, fiber orientations, web connectivity, and web density. In particular, we focus our study on the structural and mechanical properties of a *Cyrtophora citricola* spider web, the overall geometry of which is shown in [Fig.](#page-1-0) [1.](#page-1-0) We employ a machine learning based approach to develop a new model to capture the complex mechanics of spider webs. Such approaches can be useful to describe the intricate relationships in hierarchical materials, and have been applied previously to other systems [[23](#page-9-2)[–37\]](#page-9-3).

# **2. Materials, models and methods**

# *2.1. Data from physical spider web*

<span id="page-0-3"></span>We report the development of WebNet, a neural network based on the structural and mechanical properties of a *Cyrtophora citricola* spider web that have been previously derived in [\[18\]](#page-8-10) and [[38](#page-9-4)], respectively. Su et al. [\[18\]](#page-8-10), have modeled the 3D architecture of a tent-web built by a *C. citricola* spider using image processing algorithms on high resolution images of slices of the web illuminated by a sliding sheet laser. This automatic

<span id="page-0-2"></span><sup>∗</sup> Corresponding author.

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Fig. 1.** Overview of the *C. citricola* spider web geometry. On the left is the original web the spider built in a rectangular frame, and on the right is the model derived from [[18](#page-8-10)]. This spider web is composed of two tangle regions on top and bottom of a high-density tent region.

<span id="page-1-1"></span>**Fig. 2.** 3D spider web geometrical and mechanical properties data collection process. (a) The full scale *C. citricola* spider web is divided in smaller cubic samples (76 cm x 76 cm x 76 cm), with different structures and densities. (b) The web samples are uniaxially stretched in the x, y, and z direction using meso-scale bead–spring particle dynamic simulations. The data was collected from three uniaxial stretching simulations of each of the 38 web samples (114 simulations) from [\[38](#page-9-4)].

spider web imaging method was upgraded from the first original manual method developed by Saraceno et al. and [[39](#page-9-5)[–41\]](#page-9-6). [Fig.](#page-1-0) [1](#page-1-0) shows the real spider web that the spider built in a frame and its model. This particular spider web is composed of highdensity tent region surrounded between two lower density tangle regions.

From the spider web geometry, Su and Buehler [\[38\]](#page-9-4) created a meso-scale bead–spring model for particle dynamic simulations using LAMMPS (Large-scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator) [\[42,](#page-9-7)[43](#page-9-8)] to investigate the mechanical response of the 3D web under uniaxial stretching. The silk fibers are modeled as chain of beads separated by springs which have the nonlinear mechanical properties of atomistically derived dragline silk parameterized from [\[44](#page-9-9)[–46](#page-9-10)]. The web model was cropped into smaller cubic samples (76 mm × 76 mm × 76 mm) in order to investigate the role of density on web strength and toughness ([Fig.](#page-1-1) [2A](#page-1-1)). To train WebNet, we use the results from 114 uniaxial stretching simulations of 38 web samples of different densities in *x, y*, and *z* directions, which were obtained in [[38](#page-9-4)]. [Fig.](#page-1-1) [2](#page-1-1)A illustrates the sampling of the full web into smaller web samples with different densities. [Fig.](#page-1-1) [2B](#page-1-1) shows the stress–strain curves resulting from uniaxial stretching simulations in the *x, y*, and *z* directions of one web sample. Strength and toughness properties

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Fig. 3.** Schematic defining fiber connectivity which is the number of fibers linked to a node. When the fibers are not connected to a boundary, the connectivity must be above 3 because the fibers are considered straight and attached.

can be derived by repeating this process to other web samples with different densities. The strength is the peak stress and the toughness was calculated over a strain of 0 to 9. The nonlinear behavior of the web sample under uniaxial stretching originates from the nonlinear behavior of dragline silk, the web is composed of [38].

We train WebNet not only on web densities, strength and toughness, obtained from [38], but also to a wider range of structural features such as average fiber lengths, connectivity with and without boundaries, and fiber orientation in order to describe and predict more accurately the structural and mechanical features of 3D spider webs. We define connectivity as the number of fibers connected to one node or fiber connection. Fig. 3 shows different connectivity cases. We define average connectivity with and without boundaries. For each sample, the average connectivity with boundaries includes the connectivity of the nodes that are fixed during simulations. The boundary is composed of the six faces of the cubic web samples. Fibers attached to the boundary have their end node attached and fixed during the simulations. Because the fibers are considered straight, the nodes cannot have a connectivity of 2, unless they are attached to the boundary. We also assume that there are no dangling fibers, which means that the fibers are either attached to two other fibers or attached to the boundary, which means that the connectivity without boundary needs to be above 1. The node connectivity without

boundary only considers the nodes that are not attached to the boundary. These nodes have a connectivity above or equal to 3. We quantify the web orientation using the orientation tensor  $\Omega$  defined in [47].

$$\Omega = \begin{bmatrix} \Omega_{xx} & \Omega_{xy} & \Omega_{xz} \\ \Omega_{yy} & \Omega_{yz} \\ \Omega_{zz} \end{bmatrix}$$
 (1)

With

$$\Omega_{xx} = \frac{1}{L_{total}} \sum L_i \sin^2 \theta_i \cos^2 \phi_i$$
 (2)

$$\Omega_{yy} = \frac{1}{L_{total}} \sum L_i \sin^2 \theta_i \sin^2 \phi_i \tag{3}$$

$$\Omega_{zz} = \frac{1}{L_{total}} \sum L_i \cos^2 \theta_i \tag{4}$$

where  $L_{total}$  is the total fiber length,  $(\theta_i, \phi_i)$  the spatial orientation and  $L_i$  the length of fiber i.  $\theta_i$  is the angle formed between the fiber i and the z-axis and  $\phi_i$  is the angle between the projection of fiber i on the x-y plane and the x-axis [47].  $\Omega_{xx}$ ,  $\Omega_{yy}$ , and  $\Omega_{zz}$  describe the alignment in the x, y, and z-axis, respectively. For example, if  $\Omega_{zz}=1$  the fibers are parallel to the z-axis, if  $\Omega_{zz}=0$  the fibers are perpendicular the z-axis, and if  $\Omega_{xx}=\Omega_{yy}=\Omega_{zz}=1/3$  the fibers are isotropically oriented in the 3D web sample [47].

# 2.2. Data augmentation

<span id="page-2-2"></span>To build a stronger neural network, we use data augmentation to generate more spider web data, as using properties from only 38 web samples from [38] is not sufficient. For each web sample, we have a set of 13 properties that include: average fiber lengths, fiber orientation along the x, y, and z-axis, average connectivity with and without boundaries, strength and toughness in the x, y, and z direction, and web density.

As the web samples were cropped out of the full web, we select a pair of neighboring samples and use interpolation between the set of properties of the first and second sample to estimate a new set of properties. The interpolation of the new properties follows the equation:

$$X_3 = \frac{r_1 \times X_1 + r_2 \times X_2}{r_1 + r_2} \tag{5}$$

With  $X_1$  and  $X_2$  the properties of the pair of neighboring samples.  $r_1$  and  $r_2$  are fractions of the pair of neighboring samples, that are equal to 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, and 1, with  $r_1 \neq r_2$ . We excluded the cases where  $r_1 = r_2$  because in this case  $X_3 = \frac{X_1 + X_2}{2}$  and would be independent of the fractions.  $X_3$  are the interpolated properties. Fig. 4 describes the interpolation

<span id="page-2-1"></span>**Fig. 4.** Schematic describing the data augmentation method.  $X_i$  is one type of web property (average fiber length, orientation xyz, connectivity with or without boundaries, strength xyz, toughness xyz, or web density).  $r_i$  is fraction ranging between 0.1 and 1 of sample i.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Fig. 5.** Example of the 2D representation of 100 new web combinations created by one pair neighboring samples in the *x*-direction and different fractions ranging from 0.1 to 1 used for validation of the data augmentation method by interpolation.

<span id="page-3-1"></span>**Fig. 6.** Comparison between interpolated average fiber lengths and connectivity and the actual average fiber lengths and connectivity used for validation simulations. The graphs on the left and right represent the web combination of a pair of neighbor samples along the *x*-axis and *z*-axis, respectively. The web combinations of the pair of neighbor samples along the *z*-axis that have a high density include the sheet element of the *C. citricola* web. The sheet region is a high-density net, with shorter fibers, which explains the shorter average fiber length as the density increases for the pair aligned along the *z*-axis.

method for augmenting spider web data. This method resulted in an additional 6480 new sets of web properties. We use data augmentation through interpolation as it is computationally expensive to carry out 3 uniaxial stretching simulations along the x, y, and *z*-direction for the 6480 web combinations, which would result in 19,440 simulations.

We validate this interpolation method for spider web data augmentation against simulations of web samples formed by a mixture of a pair of neighboring web samples. We select two pairs of web samples; one pair is composed of neighboring samples in the *x*-direction and the other in the *z*-direction. In this study, the web samples were extracted from the geometry of a *C. citricola* spider web [\[18,](#page-8-10)[38](#page-9-4)], this spider web is composed of a sheet web aligned along the *x*–*y* plane and tangle web regions above and under the sheet region. We decided to select two pairs of neighboring samples, one is aligned along the sheet region of the web and the other one is perpendicular to the sheet region, in order to validate the data augmentation method for two different

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Fig. 7.** Comparison between the interpolated properties and the properties derived from simulation and actual web combination orientation used for validation of the data augmentation method. The graphs on the top and bottom represent the web combination of a pair of neighbor samples along the *x*-axis and *z*-axis, respectively.

<span id="page-4-1"></span>**Fig. 8.** Overview of the deep machine learning model implemented in Keras, also depicting the flow of input data to output data (six parameters characterizing the local web microstructure serve as input, and six mechanical features are predicted by the model).

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Fig. 9.** Model accuracy and model loss over training epochs, showing excellent convergence during training of the model.

orientation cases. The pair of samples aligned in the *z*-direction includes parts of the sheet elements of *C. citricola* spider web.

Similar to the data augmentation method, we create new samples by adding different fractions of the 2 web samples. [Fig.](#page-3-0) [5](#page-3-0) shows 100 new web combinations created by one pair neighboring samples in the *x*-direction and different fractions ranging from 0.1 to 1. Using the same parameters and properties from [\[38\]](#page-9-4) we performed uniaxial stretching simulations in the *x, y*, and *z* directions for each web combination and derived its topological and mechanical properties. We obtain an additional 200 sets of properties from 600 simulations. [Fig.](#page-3-1) [6](#page-3-1) and [Fig.](#page-4-0) [7](#page-4-0) show the comparisons between properties derived from simulations and properties calculated from interpolation for each pair of web samples selected. For the range of interpolated web densities, the interpolated properties follow the general trend of the actual structural properties (average fiber lengths, connectivity, and orientations) and simulated mechanical properties (strength and toughness). We conclude that the interpolation method estimates fairly the structural and mechanical properties of spider webs and can be used for data augmentation. Combining the 38 sets of properties from [\[38\]](#page-9-4), the 6480 sets from data augmentation, and the 200 sets from simulation validations, we prepared 6718 sets of properties for building and testing WebNet (note, we removed part of the data from this entire dataset for additional independent testing and plotting the data shown in [Fig.](#page-6-0) [10](#page-6-0), see below).

#### *2.3. Data preparation for machine learning*

<span id="page-5-1"></span>The dataset used for this model has 6618 samples. The independent variables are Average Fiber Length, Orientation X, Y and Z, Average Connectivity With Boundaries, and Density (for a definition of variables, see Section [2.1](#page-0-3)). The dependent variables are Strength X, Y and Z as well as Toughness X, Y and Z.

A set of 100 random samples were removed from the dataset to create a set of samples that the model has never been trained or tested on, and could be used to test the model's performance. Therefore, these samples are new to the model when it is tested (however, we note that since some of the data is generated using the augmentation method described above, and it is all derived from the same spider web).

This model was trained on a training set of 5294 samples and tested on a test set of 1324 samples, based on a train/test split ratio set to 80:20. The training and test sets were standardized with sklearn StandardScaler. The standard score of sample *x* is calculated as: *z* = (*x* − *u*)/*s*, where *u* is the mean of training samples and *s* is the standard deviation of the training samples.

# *2.4. Neural network development*

WebNet is implemented using Keras (an open-source neuralnetwork library written in Python [\[29\]](#page-9-12)), employing a sequential model with 12 layers (11 dense ReLu activated layers, as well as one dense linear activated layer). [Fig.](#page-4-1) [8](#page-4-1) depicts an overview of the model architecture used here. The input layer of this model is ReLU activated with 6 nodes. The first 2 hidden layers have 12 nodes. The 3rd hidden layer has 24 nodes, the 4th has 48 nodes. The 5th and 6th hidden layers have 64 nodes. The last 4 hidden layers are an inverted repeat of the first 4 hidden layers. All 10 hidden layers are ReLu activated layers. The output layer has 6 nodes, and is a linear activated layer. The model is compiled with an Adam optimizer and a MSE (mean squared error) loss function.

#### *2.5. Training and validation*

<span id="page-5-2"></span>The model is trained for 5000 epochs, whereas the steps per epoch and validation steps are not specified. The training and validation loss are close throughout the training of the model. This is also mirrored in the training and validation accuracy, which are close throughout the training of the model, as shown in [Fig.](#page-5-0) [9](#page-5-0). This confirms that the model is not overfitting during the training procedure, and we find that the optimization performs well.

#### **3. Results**

Using the data augmentation technique described in Section [2.2](#page-2-2), we build the dataset to train the neural network [\(Figs.](#page-4-1) [8](#page-4-1) and [9](#page-5-0), details in Sections [2.3](#page-5-1)[–2.5\)](#page-5-2). Once trained ([Fig.](#page-5-0) [9](#page-5-0)), the model enables us to make predictions about the web behavior as a function of its physical characteristics, defining the local microstructure.

First, we explore whether the model can accurately reproduce the mechanical signatures seen in the original, experimental derived data. [Fig.](#page-6-0) [10](#page-6-0) shows the predictions of WebNet, for a set of 100 random samples that were removed from the original complete dataset (described in Section [2.2\)](#page-2-2) to create a set of data that the model has not been trained or tested on, and could be used to test the model's performance. The predictions are conducted for strength in the *x, y*, and *z* -direction, as well as toughness in the *x, y*, and *z* -direction. For all cases, the test (red curve) and prediction (blue) agree remarkably well. We note that the model is capable of discerning detailed variations of the relationships. These results show that the model has adequately learned the mechanical signatures of the web geometries as a function of microstructure.

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Fig. 10.** Direct comparison of the predictions made using WebNet versus the original data, applied to part of the data that the model has not seen during training and testing (the sample data consisting of 100 data points was extracted randomly from the initial data set). The results show excellent agreement between the prediction and the experiment-derived, physical data, revealing that the model has been well-trained.. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)

Next, we explore the predictions of strength and toughness values as a function of key physical parameters, namely average connectivity, density, and fiber orientation. [Fig.](#page-7-0) [11](#page-7-0) depicts predictions from the WebNet model of strength and toughness values, for variation of average connectivity with boundaries (A), density (B), and orientation along the *x*-axis (C). These predictions reveal that the model captures the general trends of the variations of parameters well. For example, increases in density lead to increases in strength and toughness.

For each case of [Fig.](#page-7-0) [11](#page-7-0), only one parameter was varied while the other parameters stayed constant. [Fig.](#page-7-0) [11A](#page-7-0) shows the predictions of strength and toughness for average connectivity ranging from 1.8 to 3.4, which is outside the range of the experimental data (2.27–3.15). WebNet predicts a limited increase of toughness as the average connectivity increases. The model also predicts the strength to decrease until it reaches a minimum at an average connectivity of around 2.8. For connectivity larger than 2.8, WebNet predicts the strength to increase. As the connectivity increases, more fibers are connected to several other fibers. Under uniaxial stretching, the fibers taking the load will break when they reach peak stress and redistribute the load to its connected fibers. The redundancy of the web sample will lead to a higher strength and toughness, which is what WebNet predicted for toughness and strength for connectivity above 2.8.

[Fig.](#page-7-0) [11B](#page-7-0) shows predictions of strength and toughness for densities ranging from 5×10−<sup>5</sup> to 6.5×10−<sup>4</sup> kg/m<sup>3</sup> . The range of original experimental densities spans from 9.6×10−<sup>5</sup> to 6.3×10−<sup>4</sup> kg/m<sup>3</sup> . Strength and toughness increase with web density increase because the load is distributed to more fibers, which is what has been predicted by WebNet.

[Fig.](#page-7-0) [11](#page-7-0)C shows the predictions of strength and toughness with fiber orientation along the *x*-axis (Orientation X) ranging from 0.33 to 0.53. The range of original experimental orientation X spans from 0.24 to 0.43. As Orientation X increases, more fibers are aligned along the *x*-axis consequently more fibers can

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Fig. 11.** Predictions from the WebNet model of strength and toughness values, for variation of average connectivity with boundaries (A), density (B) and orientation (C) (only one parameter was varied while the other parameters stayed constant). The analysis of the data, and comparison to the experimental-derived mechanical behavior, shows that the model predictions agree well with the physical behavior. (A), Predictions of strength and toughness for average connectivity ranging from 1.8 to 3.4 (original experimental data ranged from 2.27 to 3.15). WebNet predicts an increase of toughness as the average connectivity increases, even outside the original data range. (B), Predictions of strength and toughness for densities ranging from  $5 \times 10^{-5}$  to  $6.5 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-5}$  to  $6.3 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-5}$  to  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities spans from  $9.6 \times 10^{-4}$  kg/m³ (original experimental densities span

contribute to strength and toughness when the webs are under uniaxial stretching along the *x*-axis. This is what WebNet predicted, where the strength and toughness along the *x*-axis increase as the fiber orientation X increases while the strength and toughness in the y and z-direction are unaffected.

Fig. 12 depicts surface plots of strength vs. average fiber length and average connectivity with boundaries (A), as well as toughness over the same parameter variations (B). These plots provide a sort of Ashby-like chart that can be used for inverse design applications, optimizing a material property under a set of constraints or finding a material microstructure that meets a set of requirements in terms of material properties. Moving forward, we could collect more spider webs, from different species and built

in different environmental conditions to tune and then validate the predictions of WebNet.

## 4. Conclusions

This study on the structural and mechanical properties of a *C. citricola* spider web reported a method to derive the neural net model directly from the experimental–computational mesoscale modeling, using a novel data augmentation method. The data augmentation method can be used in other application where sparse experimental or computational data is available, to build larger datasets needed for machine learning applications. This is often a key aspect of data driven models, and could be transferred to other systems.

<span id="page-8-13"></span>**Fig. 12.** Surface plot of strength vs average fiber length and average connectivity with boundaries (A), as well as toughness over the same parameter variations (B). These plots provide a sort of Ashby-like char that can be used for inverse design applications, optimizing a material property under a set of constraints or finding a material microstructure that meets a set of requirements in terms of material properties (for both plots, Orientation X = 0.380927, Y = 0.26668, Z = 0.352393 and density = 0.000191255 is kept constant).

Our results show that our machine learning model captures the complex mechanics of spider webs, and hence provides a rapid and insightful tool to predict the mechanical signatures of webs. More generally, such approaches can be useful to describe the intricate relationships in other hierarchical materials, and provide a basis to develop multiscale models. We believe that modeling approach reported here can provide fruitful approaches at the interface of experimental and computational data, integrating experimental mechanics into a predictive design tools. Indeed, an application of the model can be materials-by-design, where the ML model can be used to solve an inverse problem to identify certain material microstructures to meet certain target material combinations [\[48\]](#page-9-13).

Future work could focus on further validation of the method, perhaps by comparing the predictions to other, distinct spider webs (from the same species and others). This may provide a more independent validation of the results and offer new insights into general understanding of web mechanics, and our ability to model the relationships between microstructure and mechanical features using machine learning.

## **Declaration of competing interest**

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

#### **Acknowledgments**

We acknowledge support from NIH, USA (NIH U01 EB014976) and MIT's Center for Art, Science and Technology (CAST), USA and the Mellon Foundation, USA, the Office of Naval Research, USA (N000141612333), AFOSR-MURI, USA (FA9550-15-1-0514), as well as the Army Research Office, USA (W911NF1920098). Fruitful discussions with Tomás Saraceno and Studio Tomás Saraceno (STS) GmBH are acknowledged.

# **References**

- <span id="page-8-0"></span>[1] H.D. Espinosa, J.E. Rim, F. Barthelat, M.J. Buehler, Merger of structure and material in nacre and bone - Perspectives on de novo biomimetic materials, Prog. Mater. Sci. 54 (2009) <http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.pmatsci.2009.05.001>.
- [2] U.G.K. Wegst, H. Bai, E. Saiz, A.P. Tomsia, R.O. Ritchie, Bioinspired structural materials, Nature Mater. 14 (2015) 23–36, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat4089) [nmat4089](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat4089).

- [3] U.G.K. Wegst, Bamboo and wood in musical instruments, Annu. Rev. Mater. Res. 38 (2008) 323–349, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1146/annurev.matsci.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1146/annurev.matsci.38.060407.132459) [38.060407.132459.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1146/annurev.matsci.38.060407.132459)
- [4] F.J. Martin-Martinez, K. Jin, D. López Barreiro, M.J. Buehler, The rise of hierarchical nanostructured materials from renewable sources: Learning from nature, ACS Nano. 12 (2018) 7425–7433, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.8b04379) [acsnano.8b04379](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.8b04379).
- [5] P. Fratzl, R. Weinkamer, Nature's hierarchical materials, Prog. Mater. Sci. 52 (2007) 1263–1334, <http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/J.PMATSCI.2007.06.001>.
- [6] [A. Velasco-Hogan, D.D. Deheyn, M. Koch, B. Nothdurft, E. Arzt, M.A.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb6) [Meyers, On the nature of the transparent teeth of the deep-sea dragonfish,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb6) [aristostomias scintillans audrey, Matter \(2019\).](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb6)
- <span id="page-8-1"></span>[7] [N.L. Garrison, J. Rodriguez, I. Agnarsson, J.A. Coddington, C.E. Griswold,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb7) [C.A. Hamilton, M. Hedin, K.M. Kocot, J.M. Ledford, J.E. Bond, Spider](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb7) [phylogenomics: untangling the spider tree of life, PeerJ 4 \(2016\) e1719.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb7)
- <span id="page-8-2"></span>[8] J. Kim, K. Park, The design characteristics of nature-inspired buildings, Civ. Eng. Archit. 6 (2018) 88–107, [http://dx.doi.org/10.13189/cea.2018.060206.](http://dx.doi.org/10.13189/cea.2018.060206)
- <span id="page-8-3"></span>[9] [S. Arrhenius, H. Granström, P. Jäger, J. Kastner, H.-U. Obrist, T. Saraceno, in:](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb9) [S. Arrhenius, T. Saraceno \(Eds.\), 14 Billions \(Working Title\), Skira Editore,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb9) [Milano, 2011.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb9)
- <span id="page-8-4"></span>[10] [X. Mu, Y. Wang, C. Guo, Y. Li, S. Ling, W. Huang, P. Cebe, H.-H. Hsu, F.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb10) [De Ferrari, X. Jiang, Q. Xu, A. Balduini, F.G. Omenetto, D.L. Kaplan, 3D](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb10) [printing of silk protein structures by aqueous solvent-directed molecular](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb10) [assembly, Macromol. Biosci. 120 \(2019\) 1900191.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb10)
- <span id="page-8-5"></span>[11] [C. Vepari, D.L. Kaplan, Silk as a biomaterial, Prog. Polym. Sci. 32 \(2007\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb11) [991–1007.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb11)
- <span id="page-8-6"></span>[12] [U.M. Bauer, A. Rujoiu, Tomás Saraceno: Arachnid Orchestra, Jam Sessions](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb12) [\(2017\).](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb12)
- [13] [I. Su, Z. Qin, A. Bisshop, R. Muehlethaler, E. Ziporyn, M.J. Buehler, Sonifica](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb13)[tion of a 3D spider web and reconstitution into musical composition using](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb13) [granular synthesis, Comput. Music J. \(2020\) submitted for publication.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb13)
- <span id="page-8-7"></span>[14] I. Su, C. Southworth, I. Hattwick, E. Zipory, T. Saraceno, M.J. Buehler, Interactive exploration of a hierarchical spider web structure with sound, J. Multimodal User Interfaces, submitted for publication.
- <span id="page-8-8"></span>[15] I. Su, M.J. Buehler, Spider silk: Dynamic mechanics, Nature Mater. (2016) [http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat4721.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat4721)
- [16] [I. Su, M.J. Buehler, Nanomechanics of silk: the fundamentals of a strong,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb16) [tough and versatile material, Nanotechnology 27 \(2016\) 302001.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb16)
- <span id="page-8-9"></span>[17] G.X. Gu, I. Su, S. Sharma, J.L. Voros, Z. Qin, M.J. Buehler, Threedimensional-printing of bio-inspired composites, J. Biomech. Eng. 138 (2016) 21006–21016, <http://dx.doi.org/10.1115/1.4032423>.
- <span id="page-8-10"></span>[18] I. Su, Z. Qin, T. Saraceno, A. Krell, R. Mühlethaler, A. Bisshop, M.J. Buehler, Imaging and analysis of a three-dimensional spider web architecture, J. R. Soc. Interface 15 (2018) 20180193, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2018.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2018.0193) [0193](http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2018.0193).
- <span id="page-8-11"></span>[19] A.M.T. Harmer, T.A. Blackledge, J.S. Madin, M.E. Herberstein, Highperformance spider webs: integrating biomechanics, ecology and behaviour, J. R. Soc. Interface (2010) [http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2010.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2010.0454) [0454](http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2010.0454).
- <span id="page-8-12"></span>[20] I. Su, G.S. Jung, N. Narayanan, M.J. Buehler, Perspectives on threedimensional printing of self-assembling materials and structures, Curr. Opin. Biomed. Eng. 15 (2020) 59–67, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cobme.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cobme.2020.01.003) [2020.01.003.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cobme.2020.01.003)

- <span id="page-9-0"></span>[21] B. Mortimer, A. Soler, C.R. Siviour, F. Vollrath, Remote monitoring of vibrational information in spider webs, Sci. Nat. 105 (2018) 37, [http:](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00114-018-1561-1) [//dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00114-018-1561-1.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00114-018-1561-1)
- <span id="page-9-1"></span>[22] Z. Qin, M.J. Buehler, Spider silk: Webs measure up, Nature Mater. 12 (2013) <http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat3578>.
- <span id="page-9-2"></span>[23] T.W. Hughes, I.A.D. Williamson, M. Minkov, S. Fan, Wave physics as an analog recurrent neural network, Sci. Adv. 5 (2019) eaay6946, [http://dx.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aay6946) [doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aay6946.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aay6946)
- [24] G.X. Gu, C.T. Chen, D.J. Richmond, M.J. Buehler, Bioinspired hierarchical composite design using machine learning: simulation, additive manufacturing, and experiment, Mater. Horizons 5 (2018) 939–945, [http://dx.doi.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c8mh00653a) [org/10.1039/c8mh00653a](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c8mh00653a).
- [25] Y.C. Hsu, C.H. Yu, M.J. Buehler, Using deep learning to predict fracture patterns in crystalline solids, Matter 3 (2020) 197–211, [http://dx.doi.org/](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.matt.2020.04.019) [10.1016/j.matt.2020.04.019](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.matt.2020.04.019).
- [26] K.G. Reyes, B. Maruyama, The machine learning revolution in materials?, MRS Bull. 44 (2019) 530–537, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1557/mrs.2019.153.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1557/mrs.2019.153)
- [27] B. Ni, H. Gao, A deep learning approach to the inverse problem of modulus identification in elasticity, MRS Bull. (2020) 1–7, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1557/](http://dx.doi.org/10.1557/mrs.2020.231) [mrs.2020.231.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1557/mrs.2020.231)
- [28] C.-H. Yu, Z. Qin, M.J. Buehler, Artificial intelligence design algorithm for nanocomposites optimized for shear crack resistance, Nano Futur. (2019) [http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/2399-1984/ab36f0.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/2399-1984/ab36f0)
- <span id="page-9-12"></span>[29] M.J. Buehler, Liquified protein vibrations, classification and cross-paradigm de novo image generation using deep neural networks, Nano Futur. 4 (2020) 1–12, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/2399-1984/ab9a27.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/2399-1984/ab9a27)
- [30] P.Z. Hanakata, E.D. Cubuk, D.K. Campbell, H.S. Park, Accelerated search and design of stretchable graphene kirigami using machine learning, Phys. Rev. Lett. (2018) [http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.121.255304.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.121.255304)
- [31] C. Szegedy, W. Liu, Y. Jia, P. Sermanet, S. Reed, D. Anguelov, D. Erhan, V. Vanhoucke, A. Rabinovich, Going deeper with convolutions, in: Proc. IEEE Comput. Soc. Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2015, [http://dx.doi.org/](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/CVPR.2015.7298594) [10.1109/CVPR.2015.7298594](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/CVPR.2015.7298594).
- [32] D. Silver, A. Huang, C.J. Maddison, A. Guez, L. Sifre, G. van den Driessche, J. Schrittwieser, I. Antonoglou, V. Panneershelvam, M. Lanctot, S. Dieleman, D. Grewe, J. Nham, N. Kalchbrenner, I. Sutskever, T. Lillicrap, M. Leach, K. Kavukcuoglu, T. Graepel, D. Hassabis, Mastering the game of go with deep neural networks and tree search, Nature (2016) [http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature16961) [nature16961](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature16961).
- [33] C.-H. Yu, M.J. Buehler, Sonification based de novo protein design using artificial intelligence, structure prediction, and analysis using molecular modeling, APL Bioeng. 4 (2020) 016108, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.5133026) [5133026.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.5133026)

- [34] Z. Qin, M.J. Buehler, Analysis of the vibrational and sound spectrum of over 100,000 protein structures and application in sonification, Extrem. Mech. Lett. (2019) 100460, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.eml.2019.100460.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.eml.2019.100460)
- [35] [C.H. Yu, Z. Qin, F. Martin-Martinez, M.J. Buehler, A self-consistent sonifica](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb35)[tion method to translate amino acid sequences into musical compositions](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb35) [and application in protein design using AI, ACS Nano 13 \(2019\) 7471–7482.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb35)
- [36] K.T. Butler, D.W. Davies, H. Cartwright, O. Isayev, A. Walsh, Machine learning for molecular and materials science, Nature 559 (2018) 547–555, <http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41586-018-0337-2>.
- <span id="page-9-3"></span>[37] K.T. Schütt, F. Arbabzadah, S. Chmiela, K.R. Müller, A. Tkatchenko, Quantum-chemical insights from deep tensor neural networks, Nature Commun. 8 (2017) 6–13, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ncomms13890.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ncomms13890)
- <span id="page-9-4"></span>[38] [I. Su, M.J. Buehler, Mesomechanics of a three-dimensional spider web, J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb38) [Mech. Phys. Solids \(2020\).](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb38)
- <span id="page-9-5"></span>[39] [C. Wulff, Zu Hause bei der Schwarzen Witwe oder das letzte Projekt mit](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb39) [Rolf-Dieter Düppe, 2010, Festschrift Anlässlich Der Pensionierung von Dr.-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb39) [Ing. Rolf-Dieter Düppe Nach 36 Jahren Am Inst. Für Photogramm. Und](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb39) [Kartographie; Schriftenr. / Fachrichtung Geodäsie 30, 8.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb39)
- [40] [T. Luhmann, Nahbereichsphotogrammetrie, Errata, Wichmann Verlag,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb40) [Heidelberg, 2017.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb40)
- <span id="page-9-6"></span>[41] [T. Luhmann, 3D-Rekonstruktion Von Spinnennetzen, Wichmann Verlag,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb41) [Heidelberg, 2010.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2352-4316(20)30243-1/sb41)
- <span id="page-9-7"></span>[42] S. Plimpton, Fast parallel algorithms for short-range molecular dynamics, J. Comput. Phys. 117 (1995) 1–19, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1006/jcph.1995.1039.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1006/jcph.1995.1039)
- <span id="page-9-8"></span>[43] M.J. Buehler, Atomistic modeling of materials failure, 2008, [http://dx.doi.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-76426-9) [org/10.1007/978-0-387-76426-9.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-76426-9)
- <span id="page-9-9"></span>[44] S.W. Cranford, A. Tarakanova, N.M. Pugno, M.J. Buehler, Nonlinear material behaviour of spider silk yields robust webs, Nature 482 (2012) 72–76, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature10739.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature10739)
- [45] S. Keten, Z. Xu, B. Ihle, M.J. Buehler, Nanoconfinement controls stiffness, strength and mechanical toughness of B-sheet crystals in silk, Nature Mater. 9 (2010) 359–367, <http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat2704>.
- <span id="page-9-10"></span>[46] S. Keten, M.J. Buehler, Nanostructure and molecular mechanics of spider dragline silk protein assemblies, J. R. Soc. Interface 7 (2010) 1709–1721, <http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2010.0149>.
- <span id="page-9-11"></span>[47] P. Soltani, M.S. Johari, M. Zarrebini, Effect of 3D fiber orientation on permeability of realistic fibrous porous networks, Powder Technol. 254 (2014) 44–56, <http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.powtec.2014.01.001>.
- <span id="page-9-13"></span>[48] M.J. Buehler, Bioinspirierte materiomik, in: P. Fratzl, K. Jacobs, T. Scheibel (Eds.), Mater. Impuls. Natur, Acatec, 2019, pp. 85–88, [https://www.acatech.](https://www.acatech.de/publikation/materialforschung-impulsgeber-natur/) [de/publikation/materialforschung- impulsgeber-natur/.](https://www.acatech.de/publikation/materialforschung-impulsgeber-natur/)