## LETTERS

## Binary nanocrystal superlattice membranes self-assembled at the liquid–air interface

Angang Dong<sup>1</sup> , Jun Chen<sup>2</sup> , Patrick M. Vora<sup>3</sup> , James M. Kikkawa<sup>3</sup> & Christopher B. Murray1,2

The spontaneous organization of multicomponent micrometresized colloids<sup>1</sup> or nanocrystals<sup>2</sup> into superlattices is of scientific importance for understanding the assembly process on the nanometre scale and is of great interest for bottom-up fabrication of functional devices. In particular, co-assembly of two types of nanocrystal into binary nanocrystal superlattices (BNSLs) has recently attracted significant attention2–8, as this provides a lowcost, programmable way to design metamaterials<sup>4</sup> with precisely controlled properties that arise from the organization and interactions of the constituent nanocrystal components9 . Although challenging, the ability to grow and manipulate large-scale BNSLs is critical for extensive exploration of this new class of material. Here we report a general method of growing centimetre-scale, uniform membranes of BNSLs that can readily be transferred to arbitrary substrates. Our method is based on the liquid–air interfacial assembly of multicomponent nanocrystals and circumvents the limitations associated with the current assembly strategies, allowing integration of BNSLs on any substrate for the fabrication of nanocrystal-based devices10. We demonstrate the construction of magnetoresistive devices by incorporating large-area (1.5 mm 3 2.5 mm) BNSL membranes; their magnetotransport measurements clearly show that device magnetoresistance is dependent on the structure (stoichiometry) of the BNSLs. The ability to transfer BNSLs also allows the construction of free-standing membranes and other complex architectures that have not been accessible previously.

In comparison with the growth of single-component superlattices11, the assembly process for BNSLs is more complicated, with a number of distinct pairwise interactions (van der Waals, dipolar, Coulombic and so on) combining with hard-sphere space-filling rules to drive the selfassembly ofmulticomponent nanocrystals9 . Despite the recent advances in the growth and structural characterization of BNSLs12–17, their applications are limited by the fact that the formation and manipulation of large-scale BNSLs remain a major challenge14. Existing methods of growing BNSLs rely on the evaporation of a binary nanocrystal solution on a tilted solid substrate2,4,12–17. In this approach, BNSL formation is induced by the evaporation of high-boiling-point solvents such as tetrachloroethylene, such that the assembly process typically takes several hours to complete2,4,12–17. In addition, the substrate wetting properties have significant influence on BNSL formation. Until now, growth of BNSLs has been limited to the use of hydrophobic substrates such as carbon-coated transmission electron microscopy (TEM) grids12, making it difficult to integrate BNSLs on a desired substrate for device applications. Extended BNSL growth also requires careful regulation of the solvent evaporation kinetics. To obtain BNSLs with relatively large domain sizes, the assembly process is usually performed under reduced pressure at elevated temperatures (that is, 45–75 uC)2,4,12–17. However, even under optimized conditions, the as-grown BNSLs typically exist as isolated, micrometre-sized islands scattered irregularly on the substrate, leading to a low surface coverage14,15. Our method is based on dryingmediated self-assembly of multicomponent nanocrystals on an immiscible liquid surface, allowing the growth of macroscopic BNSL membranes with no substrate restrictions under ambient conditions. In this procedure, hexane replaces high-boiling-point solvents, allowing the assembly process to complete in several minutes. Another major benefit of our approach is that BNSL membranes formed on the liquid surface can be readily transferred to arbitrary substrates.

The Fe3O4–FePt nanocrystal combination is a model system with which to demonstrate the formation of BNSL membranes, as the contrast difference between two nanocrystal components in TEM allows better observation of the superlattice structure. To grow BNSL membranes, we spread a drop of hexane solution containing Fe3O4 and FePt nanocrystals with selected sizes and concentrations over the surface (,1.5 cm 3 1.5 cm) of diethylene glycol (DEG) in a Teflon well (Fig. 1a). The well was covered with a glass slide and hexane was then allowed to evaporate over 5–10 min, resulting in a solid film supported on the DEG subphase surface. To transfer BNSLs, a substrate was placed under the floating film and then gently lifted up. In this way, centimetre-scale BNSL membranes can be readily transferred to the substrate after drying. The photograph in Fig. 1a shows a SiO2–Si wafer (,7 mm 3 7 mm) that was coated by a BNSL membrane self-assembled from 15-nm Fe3O4 and 6-nm FePt nanocrystals (,3:1 FePt/Fe3O4 particle ratio). TEM showed that the membrane is continuous and uniform in thickness, consisting of a mosaic of AlB2-type BNSL domains (Fig. 1b–g) with different growth directions or different lattice plane projections, as evidenced by the grain boundaries between neighbouring domains (Supplementary Fig. 1). The average domain size is 1–2 mm, with some large domains approaching tens of micrometres in lateral dimension. Both the (001) and the (100) lattice projection were commonly observed in TEM (Fig. 1b, e) as well as in high-resolution scanning electron microscopy (Fig. 1d, g). In some cases, superlattice domains isostructural with Cu3Au and icosahedral-AB13 (ico-AB13) structures were also observed as minority phases coexisting with the AlB2-type superlattices (Supplementary Fig. 2). Simultaneous formation of different types of BNSLs has also been observed previously2,12, and is presumably attributable to the local variations in nanocrystal concentration during BNSL growth.

We used atomic force microscopy (AFM) to characterize the thickness and surface morphology of BNSL membranes transferred to SiO2–Si wafers. The membrane thickness was found to range between 30 and 60 nm (depending on the sample), which corresponds to 1–3 unit cells. Figure 2a shows the AFM height image of a typical AlB2 type BNSL membrane, the thickness of which is ,40 nm as determined from the line profile analysis (Fig. 2a, inset). The AFM phase image revealed a (100) lattice projection in plane view (Fig. 2b),

Department of Chemistry, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA. <sup>2</sup> Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA. <sup>3</sup> Department of Physics & Astronomy, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

NATURE Voi 466 22 July 2010 LETTERS

**Figure 1** | **Large-scale BNSL membranes self-assembled at the liquid-air interface. a**, Schematic of the BNSL membrane growth and transfer processes. The photograph shows a typical BNSL membrane transferred to a SiO<sub>2</sub>–Si wafer. Mechanical damage from tweezers in the membrane's upper right corner (photo) helps visualize the scale. **b–g**, AlB<sub>2</sub>-type BNSL membranes self-assembled from 15-nm Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and 6-nm FePt nanocrystals. **b**, TEM image of the (001) lattice projection (upper inset, magnified view; lower inset, small-angle electron diffraction pattern). **c**, **d**, Crystallographic model (**c**) and high-resolution scanning electron microscopy (HRSEM; **d**) image of the (001) projection. **e**, TEM image of the (100) lattice projection (upper inset, magnified view; lower inset, small-angle electron diffraction pattern). **f**, **g**, Crystallographic model (**f**) and HRSEM image of the (100) projection (**g**).

suggesting a (001) projection from a certain side view. Given the packing geometry of the (001) plane and the sizes of the two nanocrystal components, the membrane thickness is about 1 unit cell. The membrane is comprised of two layers of large Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanocrystals and four layers of small FePt nanocrystals (Fig. 2c). In addition, the rootmean-squared roughness value determined from a  $10\,\mu\text{m} \times 10\,\mu\text{m}$  scan window containing multiple domains is about 5 nm, indicating that the membrane surface is flat and smooth. Individual domains were found to vary by  $\pm 1$  nanocrystal layer in thickness, further confirming that the membrane is of uniform thickness. These results are consistent with scanning electron microscopy (SEM) studies (Supplementary Fig. 3).

The structure and stoichiometry of BNSL membranes can be tuned by changing the size and/or the concentration ratios between the two

Figure 2 | BNSL membrane one unit cell thick. a, AFM height image (scan size,  $1 \, \mu m \times 1 \, \mu m$ ) of an AlB<sub>2</sub>-type BNSL membrane consisting of 15-nm Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and 6-nm FePt nanocrystals. Inset, height analysis of the profile indicated in the AFM image. b, AFM phase image of the same membrane, showing a (100) projection in plane view. c, Side view of a crystallographic model of the membrane, showing that the membrane is one unit cell thick.

nanocrystal components. For example, NaCl-type BNSL membranes (Supplementary Fig. 4) were formed by co-crystallization of 15-nm Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and 4-nm FePt nanocrystals ( $\sim$ 2:1 FePt/Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> particle ratio). Notably, sharp cracks propagating in the membrane were observed upon fracture (Supplementary Fig. 4c, d), further confirming the long-range nanocrystal ordering throughout the membrane. Further increasing the FePt/Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> particle ratio resulted in CaB<sub>6</sub>-type BNSL membranes (Supplementary Fig. 5). In addition to the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>–FePt combination, BNSL membranes with tunable structures were obtained in the assembly of a variety of binary nanocrystal systems such as Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>–Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>–CoPt<sub>3</sub> (Supplementary Fig. 6), indicating the generality of the approach.

Growing BNSLs on a liquid surface facilitates film transfer, allowing integration of BNSLs on any substrate for device fabrication. We built magnetoresistive devices (Fig. 3) by incorporating large-area (1.5 mm × 2.5 mm) BNSL membranes self-assembled from 15-nm Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and 7-nm Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanocrystals. The spin-dependent transport of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanocrystal arrays has recently attracted considerable attention<sup>18,19</sup>, as Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> could potentially achieve high magnetoresistance  $(MR = (R - R_0)/R_0$ , where R is the resistance and  $R_0$  is its zero-field value) owing to its high spin polarization<sup>20</sup>. Co-assembly of two different-sized Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanocrystals into BNSLs provides an opportunity to precisely tune magnetoresistance by varying the superlattice structure (stoichiometry). To fabricate the device, a floating AlB<sub>2</sub>type (Supplementary Fig. 6a) or ico-AB<sub>13</sub>-type (Supplementary Fig. 6b) BNSL membrane was transferred to a sapphire substrate prepatterned with gold electrodes (Fig. 3a) and then annealed at 500 °C to reduce the interparticle spacing<sup>18</sup>. TEM showed that the binary superlattice structure was preserved after annealing (Fig. 3b, c). For both types of BNSL, the membrane resistivity increased monotonically with decreasing temperature (T) and the zero-bias-voltage conductance  $(G_0)$  as a function of T can be well fitted by  $\ln(G_0) \propto$  $T^{-1/2}$  (Fig. 3d). This suggests that some form of thermally assisted interparticle tunnelling in the presence of electron-electron interactions, such as variable range hopping or co-tunnelling, dominates the electronic transport through BNSL membranes 18,19,21

Measurements of device resistance as a function of the external magnetic field (H) yielded negative magnetoresistance, with the magnetoresistance values gradually increasing with decreasing T (Fig. 3e). For each type of superlattice structure, we measured two distinct membranes and four devices were fabricated from each membrane. The magnetoresistance values obtained are consistent from device to

LETTERS NATURE|Vol 466| 22 July 2010

Figure 3 <sup>|</sup> Magnetotransport of large-area (1.5 mm 3 2.5 mm) BNSL membranes. a, Schematic of the device. b, TEM image of the thermally annealed AlB2-type BNSL membrane. c, TEM image of the thermally annealed ico-AB13-type BNSL membrane. d, Temperature dependence of zero-bias-voltage conductance (G0) for the AlB2-type (red) and ico-AB13 type (blue) BNSL membranes. G<sup>0</sup> is plotted on a logarithmic scale. The black

lines are the corresponding linear fits to the experimental data. e, Magnetoresistance of AlB2-type (red) and ico-AB13-type (blue) BNSL membranes at various temperatures. f, Temperature dependence of magnetoresistance for the AlB2-type (red) and ico-AB13-type (blue) BNSL membranes at H 5 1 T.

device (magnetoresistance difference, *,*0.02%), suggesting the high reproducibility of devices, which we attribute to the high uniformity of the BNSL membranes. This allowed us to compare magnetotransport between two types of binary superlattice, which clearly showed that the AlB2-type BNSL membranes had higher magnetoresistance values than the ico-AB13-type membranes, with the magnetoresistance difference increasing with decreasing T (Fig. 3f). Because these two types of BNSL were assembled from the same nanocrystal components, the difference in their superlattice structures (stoichiometry) is believed to account for the observed magnetoresistance difference. Further work is underway to study the structure-dependent magnetoresistance of BNSLs systematically. It is also of interest to explore the magnetotransport of BNSL membranes assembled from Fe3O4 and other magnetic nanocrystals such as FePt and CoPt3.

The ability to transfer BNSLs also allows the construction of unique architectures such as free-standing membranes, which are ideal structures with which to fabricate devices free of substrate-induced interference22,23. Existing methods do not allow the growth of free-standing membranes of BNSLs. In contrast, by simply transferring a floating film to a holey TEM grid and then drying it, we are able to fabricate free-standing BNSL membranes with areas of 7 mm 3 7 mm (Fig. 4). Occasionally, fractured regions help visualize the membranes suspended in the holes (Fig. 4a, c). Most free-standing membranes (,90%) remained intact through transfer and vacuum drying (Fig. 4a), indicating that these membranes possess considerable mechanical robustness, which is presumably attributable to their longrange-ordered superlattice structure. In addition, sequential transfer of the floating membranes produced multilayer BNSL films, further demonstrating the flexibility of this approach. Such multilayer films can exhibit interestingMoire´ patterns24 (Supplementary Fig. 7), arising from the misorientation between two layers with respect to each other.

We found that the solvent evaporation kinetics and the subphase properties had substantial influence on the growth of BNSL membranes. Replacing hexane with higher-boiling-point solvents such as toluene led to random mixtures of two nanocrystal components. Self-assembly of binary nanocrystals on other immiscible liquids

Figure 4 <sup>|</sup> Free-standing BNSL membranes consisting of 11-nm Fe3O4 and 4.5-nm FePt nanocrystals. a, TEM overview shows that most free-standing membranes suspended in the holes remained intact through transfer and drying. One fractured membrane in the upper right corner helps visualize the membrane. b, Magnified view of the region indicated in a, showing the membrane edge attached to the copper grid as well as the AlB2-type structure of the membrane. c, TEM image of a fractured free-standing membrane, showing the sharp crack along the fracture. d, Magnified view of the region indicated in c.

NATURE|Vol 466|22 July 2010

such as water resulted in phase separation or films with limited BNSL structures, whereas continuous BNSL membranes could be reproducibly grown on DEG or tetraethylene glycol surfaces under the same experimental conditions. DEG has previously been used as the subphase to prepare monolayer nanocrystal arrays by the Langmuir–Blodgett method<sup>25,26</sup>. We attributed DEG utility in the growth of BNSLs to its chemical inertness<sup>9</sup> and low evaporation rate. When ethylene glycol was used as the subphase, BNSL islands, instead of continuous films, were observed (Supplementary Fig. 8).

We have demonstrated that co-crystallization of multicomponent nanocrystals at the liquid–air interface is a simple yet robust approach to rapidly growing large-scale membranes of long-range-ordered BNSLs. The ability to transfer BNSLs allows the fabrication of nanocrystal-based devices, which will accelerate the exploration of this new and important class of material. Given that this assembly strategy is applicable to different nanocrystal combinations, we anticipate that membranes of quasicrystalline BNSLs<sup>17</sup> and ternary nanocrystal superlattices<sup>27</sup> will also be grown by this method.

## **METHODS SUMMARY**

Nanocrystal synthesis. We synthesized monodisperse Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (ref. 28), FePt (ref. 29) and CoPt<sub>3</sub> (ref. 30) nanocrystals with tunable sizes according to the literature methods. As-synthesized nanocrystals were purified by precipitation and were dispersed in hexane to form stable solutions with concentrations of 1–10 mg ml $^{-1}$ . Self-assembly and transfer of BNSL membranes. In a typical assembly process for an AlB<sub>2</sub>-type membrane, we mixed a 10-µl hexane solution of 15-nm Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanocrystals (~6 mg ml $^{-1}$ ) with a 10-µl hexane solution of 6-nm FePt nanocrystals (~3 mg ml $^{-1}$ ) in a vial. The mixed solution was spread on the DEG surface in a Teflon well. The well was covered with a glass slide and hexane was then allowed to evaporate through the gaps between the Teflon surface and the glass slide (evaporation rate, 3–5 µl min $^{-1}$ ). A solid membrane formed upon complete evaporation of hexane. To transfer BNSLs, a substrate was placed under the floating membrane using tweezers and then gently lifted upwards to collect the membrane. The subsequent drying in a vacuum chamber removed recidual DEG

**Instrumentation.** For TEM and SEM characterization, BNSL membranes were collected on carbon-coated copper grids or holey copper grids (hole size,  $7\,\mu m \times 7\,\mu m$ ). TEM images and small-angle electron diffraction patterns were obtained using a JEOL-1400 TEM operating at 120 kV, and SEM images were obtained using a JEOL 7500F SEM operating at 2 kV. AFM was carried out on a Digital Instruments multimode scanning probe microscope. For magnetotransport studies, BNSL membranes were transferred to sapphire substrates prepatterned with Cr–Au electrodes (channel length, 1.5 mm; channel width, 2.5 mm) by thermal evaporation. The device was then annealed at 500 °C under vacuum (10 $^{-3}$  torr) for 1 h. Magnetotransport measurements were performed on a Physical Property Measurement System from Quantum Design. Structural models were built using Materials Studio 4.4 (Accelrys Software).

## Received 25 January; accepted 20 May 2010.

- Leunissen, M. E. et al. Ionic colloidal crystals of oppositely charged particles. Nature 437, 235–240 (2005).
- Shevchenko, E. V., Talapin, D. V., Kotov, N. A., O'Brien, S. & Murray, C. B. Structural diversity in binary nanoparticle superlattices. *Nature* 439, 55–59 (2006).
- Kiely, C. J., Fink, J., Brust, M., Bethell, D. & Schiffrin, D. J. Spontaneous ordering of bimodal ensembles of nanoscopic gold clusters. *Nature* 396, 444–446 (1998).
- Redl, F. X., Cho, K. S., Murray, C. B. & O'Brien, S. Three-dimensional binary superlattices of magnetic nanocrystals and semiconductor quantum dots. *Nature* 423, 968–971 (2003).
- Saunders, A. E. & Korgel, B. A. Observation of an AB phase in bidisperse nanocrystal superlattices. *ChemPhysChem* 6, 61–65 (2005).
- Cheon, J. et al. Magnetic superlattices and their nanoscale phase transition effects. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 103, 3023–3027 (2006).
- Kalsin, A. M. et al. Electrostatic self-assembly of binary nanoparticle crystals with a diamond-like lattice. Science 312, 420–424 (2006).
- 8. Zheng, J. et al. Two-dimensional nanoparticle arrays show the organizational power of robust DNA motifs. *Nano Lett.* **6**, 1502–1504 (2006).
- 9. Talapin, D. V. LEGO materials. *ACS Nano* **2**, 1097–1100 (2008).
- Urban, J. J., Talapin, D. V., Shevchenko, E. V., Kagan, C. R. & Murray, C. B. Synergism in binary nanocrystal superlattices leads to enhanced p-type

- conductivity in self-assembled PbTe/Ag $_2$ Te thin films. *Nature Mater.* **6**, 115–121 (2007).
- Murray, C. B., Kagan, C. R. & Bawendi, M. G. Synthesis and characterization of monodisperse nanocrystals and close-packed nanocrystal assemblies. *Annu. Rev. Mater. Sci.* 30, 545–610 (2000).
- Shevchenko, E. V., Talapin, D. V., Murray, C. B. & O'Brien, S. Structural characterization of self-assembled multifunctional binary nanoparticle superlattices. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 128, 3620–3637 (2006).
- Chen, Z. Y., Moore, J., Radtke, G., Sirringhaus, H. & O'Brien, S. Binary nanoparticle superlattices in the semiconductor-semiconductor system: CdTe and CdSe. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 129, 15702–15709 (2007).
- Smith, D. K., Goodfellow, B., Smilgies, D. M. & Korgel, B. A. Self-assembled simple hexagonal AB<sub>2</sub> binary nanocrystal superlattices: SEM, GISAXS, and defects. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 131, 3281–3290 (2009).
- Overgaag, K. et al. Binary superlattices of PbSe and CdSe nanocrystals. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 130, 7833–7835 (2008).
- Friedrich, H. et al. Quantitative structural analysis of binary nanocrystal superlattices by electron tomography. Nano Lett. 9, 2719–2724 (2009).
- Talapin, D. V. et al. Quasicrystalline order in self-assembled binary nanoparticle superlattices. Nature 461, 964–967 (2009).
- Jang, S., Kong, W. & Zeng, H. Magnetotransport in Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoparticle arrays dominated by noncollinear surface spins. *Phys. Rev. B* 76, 212403 (2007).
- Tauba, N., Tsukernikb, A. & Markovich, G. Inter-particle spin-polarized tunneling in arrays of magnetite nanocrystals. J. Magn. Magn. Mater. 321, 1933–1938 (2009).
- Ramos, A. V. et al. Magnetotransport properties of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> epitaxial thin films: thickness effects driven by antiphase boundaries. J. Appl. Phys. 100, 103902 (2006).
- 21. Tran, T. B. et al. Multiple cotunneling in large quantum dot arrays. *Phys. Rev. Lett.* 95, 076806 (2005).
- Mueggenburg, K. E., Lin, X. M., Goldsmith, R. H. & Jaeger, H. M. Elastic membranes of close-packed nanoparticle arrays. *Nature Mater.* 6, 656–660 (2007).
- Cheng, W. L. et al. Free-standing nanoparticle superlattice sheets controlled by DNA. Nature Mater. 8, 519–525 (2009).
- Viau, G. et al. Ruthenium nanoparticles: size, shape, and self-assemblies. Chem. Mater. 15, 486–494 (2003).
- Aleksandrovic, V. et al. Preparation and electrical properties of cobalt-platinum nanoparticle monolayers deposited by the Langmuir-Blodgett technique. ACS Nano 2, 1123–1130 (2008).
- 26. Sachan, M., Walrath, N. D., Majetich, S. A., Krycka, K. & Kao, C. Interaction effects within Langmuir layers and three-dimensional arrays of  $\varepsilon$ -Co nanoparticles. *J. Appl. Phys.* **99**, 08C302 (2006).
- Evers, W. H., Friedrich, H., Filion, L., Dijkstra, M. & Vanmaekelbergh, D.
   Observation of a ternary nanocrystal superlattice and its structural characterization by electron tomography. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 48, 9655–9657 (2009)
- Park, J. et al. Ultra-large-scale syntheses of monodisperse nanocrystals. Nature Mater. 3, 891–895 (2004).
- Sun, S. H., Murray, C. B., Weller, D., Folks, L. & Moser, A. Monodisperse FePt nanoparticles and ferromagnetic FePt nanocrystal superlattices. *Science* 287, 1989–1992 (2000).
- Shevchenko, E. V. et al. Colloidal synthesis and self-assembly of CoPt<sub>3</sub> nanocrystals. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 124, 11480–11485 (2002).

**Supplementary Information** is linked to the online version of the paper at www.nature.com/nature.

 $\label{eq:constraints} \begin{tabular}{ll} Acknowledge the financial support from the US Army Research Office (ARO) under award number MURI W911NF-08-1-0364. J.C., P.M.V. and J.M.K. are grateful for support from the NSF MRSEC programme under award number DMR-0520020. We thank C. Kagan for access to the thermal evaporator. \\ \end{tabular}$ 

**Author Contributions** A.D. and C.B.M. conceived and designed the experiments. A.D. studied the Fe $_3$ O $_4$ -FePt and Fe $_3$ O $_4$ -CoPt $_3$  nanocrystal systems, and J.C. studied the Fe $_3$ O $_4$ -Fe $_3$ O $_4$  system and the CaB $_6$ -type Fe $_3$ O $_4$ -FePt system. A.D. and J.C. carried out BNSL structural characterization and magnetoresistive device fabrication. A.D., J.C., P.M.V. and J.M.K. studied the magnetotransport of BNSL membranes. A.D. and C.B.M. wrote the paper. All authors discussed the results and commented on the manuscript.

**Author Information** Reprints and permissions information is available at www.nature.com/reprints. The authors declare no competing financial interests. Readers are welcome to comment on the online version of this article at www.nature.com/nature. Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to A.D. (angang@sas.upenn.edu) or C.B.M. (cbmurray@sas.upenn.edu).