Downloaded via MASSACHUSETTS INST OF TECHNOLOGY on February 16, 2026 at 16:47:50 (UTC). See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles.

# **Projectile Impact Shock-Induced Deformation** of One-Component Polymer Nanocomposite Thin Films

Jinho Hyon, Manny Gonzales, Jason K. Streit, Omri Fried, Olawale Lawal, Yang Jiao, Lawrence F. Drummy, Edwin L. Thomas,\* and Richard A. Vaia\*

Cite This: ACS Nano 2021, 15, 2439-2446

ACCESS

III Metrics & More

Article Recommendations

Supporting Information

ABSTRACT: Matrix-free assemblies of polymer-grafted nanoparticles (PGNs) enable mechanically robust materials for a variety of structural, electronic, and optical applications. Recent quasi-static mechanical studies have identified the key parameters that enhance canopy entanglement and promote plasticity of the PGNs below  $T_g$ . Here we experimentally explore the high-strain-rate shock impact behavior of polystyrene grafted NPs and compare their energy absorption capabilities to that of homopolystyrene for film thicknesses ranging from 75 to 550 nm and for impact velocities from 350 to 800 m/s. Modeling reveals that the initial shock compression results in a rapid temperature increase at the impact site. The uniformity of this heating is consistent with observations of greater kinetic energy absorption per mass  $(E_n^*)$  of thinner films due to extensive visco-

plastic deformation of molten film around the penetration site. Adiabatic heating is insufficient to raise the temperature at the exit surface of the thickest films resulting in increased strain localization at the impact periphery with less melt elongation. The extent and distribution of entanglements also influence  $E_n^*$ . Structurally, each NP acts as a giant cross-link node, coupling surrounding nodes via the number of canopy chains per NP and the nature and number of entanglements between canopies anchored to different NPs. Load sharing via this dual network, along with geometrical factors such as film thickness, lead to extreme  $E_n^*$  arising from the sequence of instantaneous adiabatic shock heating followed by visco-plastic drawing of the film by the projectile. These observations elucidate the critical factors necessary to create robust polymer-nanocomposite multifunctional films.

**KEYWORDS:** glassy polymer deformation, one component polymer nanocomposite, high strain rate deformation, adiabatic shock heating, laser-induced projectile impact test, entanglement and nanoparticle networks

evelopment of lightweight materials for high-rate deformation is critical for a wide range of applications where components must withstand shock compression or ballistic impact. Polymers and their composites offer numerous beneficial characteristics for protective materials, including low density, ease of manufacture, and wide tailorability of mechanical properties.<sup>2</sup> Moreover, the strong dependence of polymer properties on strain-rate and temperature presents many challenges and opportunities. 1,2 At a given temperature, amorphous polymers transition from rubbery, to ductile-plastic, to brittle with increasing strain-rate. 1-3 The yield stress increases with both the hydrostatic pressure and strain rate, while it falls with increase in temperature.<sup>2</sup> For glassy polymers, additives such as inorganic fillers or rubbery inclusions can both dramatically decrease or increase the fracture toughness, depending on the extent of shear banding and craze nucleation and stable craze growth. 2,4-6 Under low strain rate testing, polymer-grafted nanoparticles (PGNs), one

component nanocomposites, enable mechanically robust films by avoiding classic nanoparticle agglomeration and property heterogeneities occurring in two component polymer-NP blends and provide load transfer between canopy-entangled chains as well as from chain grafting to the NPs.<sup>7–12</sup>

The laser-induced projectile impact test (LIPIT) allows investigation of deformation and failure of thin films at extreme strain-rates by launching a micrometer sized projectile to generate shock compression, axisymmetric tension, and perforation of thin film targets. 13-17 Surprisingly, normally

Received: July 22, 2020 Accepted: January 11, 2021 Published: January 27, 2021

<span id="page-1-0"></span>brittle glassy polystyrene (PS) when made into thin membranes and shot with projectiles having velocities from 300-800 m/s, results in a material with a relatively large specific energy absorption  $(E_p^* \sim 2.7 \text{ MJ/kg})^{14}$  This  $E_p^*$  is about 5× greater than for macroscopic experiments on steel<sup>18</sup> and 6× that for Kevlar fabric<sup>19</sup> using the same ratio of projectile diameter to specimen thickness (D/h > 7) and  $2\times$ that of thin films of multilayer graphene tested using LIPIT.<sup>13</sup> Entanglements are critical for a high  $E_n^*$  in glassy polymers as shown for recent LIPIT studies of polycarbonate and PS thin films. 14,15 The freestanding PS films also revealed that specific KE absorption increased substantially as the film thickness decreased below ~150 nm. 14 The unexpectedly high energy absorption from a nominally brittle, glassy thin film is associated with the higher chain mobility near free surfaces and adiabatic heating that triggers substantial melt draw before film rupture. This behavior under extreme deformation deviates completely from the classic time-temperature superposition of polymer viscoelasticity and emphasizes the role of nonequilibrium processes: namely, adiabatic effects and shock wave reverberations, as well as the role of enhanced chain mobility near surfaces at these extreme strains and strain rates. 14,20-22 Even greater kinetic energy absorption may be realizable by adjusting polymer melt behavior to balance drawability with rupture strength. 23,24 Possible approaches include an optimal molecular weight distribution (e.g., entanglement density and entanglements per chain), integrating strong and dynamic secondary bonds (e.g., ionic bonds and hydrogen bonds) and use of different macromolecular architectures (e.g., star, comb, branched, and covalently linked networks). 25,26 Additionally and as we examine here, one can covalently anchor the polymer chains to nanoparticles (NP) to provide a second type of mechanical network that supplements the entanglement network from the node-node NP interactions via their surrounding, entangled canopies. 22,27-31

# **RESULTS AND DISCUSSION**

In all past LIPIT investigations of thin film perforation,  $^{13-17}$  the role of the initial shock compression on the resultant material behavior has not been taken into account. Here, the early stages of the impact-induced shock compression are modeled and results show good correspondence with the quite different experimentally observed deformation morphologies and respective  $E_p^*$  values for thin vs. thicker films. Experiments on various polystyrene-grafted SiO<sub>2</sub> and Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> PGNs films demonstrate the importance of canopy entanglements and NP node cross-links to tailor instantaneous and cumulative volumetric-deformation mechanisms as a function of shock loading and projectile perforation.

PGN structural features and the cross sectional morphology of the thin film PGN assembly are illustrated in Scheme 1. The mechanical behavior can be modified via choice of the nanoparticle core radius  $(r_0)$ , graft density (anchored chains per unit area of the nanoparticle,  $\sum$ ), and graft chain length (N), which along with  $r_0$  and  $\sum$ , determines the grafted chain conformation and hence the distribution of entanglement density and the number of entanglements per chain. Recent quasi-static uniaxial tensile studies have established the relationship between various PGN designs, intercanopy entanglement, and their quasi-static thin film mechanical behavior below  $T_{\rm g}^{\rm 8-12}$  Four types of PS-SiO<sub>2</sub> and PS-Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> PGNs were synthesized by surface-initiated living radical polymerization methods, based on established protocols (see

Scheme 1. Schematic of Polymer Grafted Nanoparticles (PGN) and Their Thin Film Assembly Including Nanoparticle Radius  $(r_0)$ , Polymer Chain Graft Density  $(\sum)$ , Distance between Nanoparticle Centers (d), and Film Thickness  $(h_0)^a$ 

"There are fewer entanglements in the near-surface regions (blue) and in regions adjacent to the NP cores.

Supporting Information (SI)). The Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and SiO<sub>2</sub> spherical core nanoparticles have  $r_0 = 3.9 \pm 0.6$  and  $8.0 \pm 2.8$  nm grafted with low (unentangled) and high molecular weight (well entangled) chains having graft densities from 0.04 to 0.57 chains/nm<sup>2</sup>, respectively (Table 1). Since the NP core volume

Table 1. Characteristics of Polymer Grafted Nanoparticles (PGNs) and Homopolymers

|                                           |                             |                      |                            | d                             |                      |            |                            |
|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|----------------------|----------------------------|-------------------------------|----------------------|------------|----------------------------|
| sample                                    | MW <sup>a</sup><br>[kg/mol] | $N_{\rm e}^{\prime}$ | $\sum_{nm^2}^{c} [ch/m^2]$ | n <sup>d</sup><br>[ch/<br>NP] | $r_0 \sum_{1/2}^{e}$ | NP<br>vol% | <i>d</i> <sup>f</sup> [nm] |
| Fe <sub>3</sub> O <sub>4</sub> -<br>PS35  | 35                          | 3                    | 0.11                       | 20.5                          | 1.3                  | 14.4       | 15                         |
| Fe <sub>3</sub> O <sub>4</sub> -<br>PS250 | 250                         | 19                   | 0.04                       | 7.5                           | 0.8                  | 6.4        | 19                         |
| SiO <sub>2</sub> -<br>PS20                | 20                          | 2                    | 0.07                       | 56.3                          | 2.1                  | 54.6       | 20                         |
| SiO <sub>2</sub> -<br>PS231               | 231                         | 18                   | 0.57                       | 458                           | 6.0                  | 1.3        | 69                         |
| PS30                                      | 30                          | 2                    |                            |                               |                      |            |                            |
| PS267                                     | 267                         | 21                   |                            |                               |                      |            |                            |

<sup>a</sup>Graft molecular weight (MW =  $N \times 104.1$  g/mol, where N is the number of monomers per chain). <sup>b</sup>N<sub>e</sub> is the number of entanglements of an average PS chain of MW under bulk state conditions. <sup>c</sup>Graft density determined from experimental weight loss of PS-grafted NP (see SI). <sup>d</sup>Average number of chains per NP. <sup>e</sup>Nondimensionalized curvature. <sup>f</sup>Center-to-center nanoparticle distance from PGN geometrical approximations.

fractions in the high molecular weight samples are only 1.3–6.4%, the core NP materials do not greatly affect the bulk modulus. Hence, the material equation of state (EOS) and wave propagation are assumed to be those of homopolystyrene when considering the initial shock response of the film (see hydrocode simulations in the SI).

Details of the LIPIT experimental procedure and sample characterization are found in SI Figure S1 and prior publications. Monodisperse silica microprojectiles (3.7  $\mu$ m diameter) were launched with incident velocities,  $v_i \sim 300-800$  m/s, carrying translational kinetic energies from 3 to 19 nJ toward freestanding PGN-PS and homopolystyrene films having thicknesses of 75, 150, 300, and 550 nm. The impact of

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 1. Time evolution of temperature and pressure in thin and thick films. Temporal snapshots comparing 75 nm (a, c, and e) and 550 nm (b, d, and f) polystyrene thin films impacted by a  $3.7 \, \mu \text{m}$  SiO<sub>2</sub> silica sphere launched at 800 m/s. Each time-step shows temperature (left) and pressure (right) contours. Temperatures and pressures are monitored at six locations in the films.

the micrometer-size projectile with the film initially generates shock waves when the two materials collide rapidly, changing the thermodynamic state of both solids in a near-discontinuous manner. The shock impedance ( $Z = \rho_0 U_s$ , where  $\rho_0$  is the initial density of the material and  $U_s$  is the shock wave velocity) and the EOS determine the initial propagation, which usually overtakes the elastic response due to the rapidly decreasing bulk compressibility.<sup>3</sup>

Experimental shock studies<sup>1</sup> of polymers report adiabatic temperature increases at deformation rates as low as  $10^2-10^3$  s<sup>-1</sup>. Simulations of initial shock compression during LIPIT were performed in the multimaterial Eulerian hydrocode CTH

(Version 12.0, Sandia National Laboratory), using well-established equations of state measured from flyer plate impact experiments,<sup>32</sup> assuming continuum behavior applies at the small scales (details are the hydrocode section of the SI). Note that only the initial, EOS-dominated response can be reliably simulated rather than the subsequent film elongation, perforation and film rupture, since relevant viscoelastic and viscoplastic constitutive relationships for thin film polystyrene or PGNs are unavailable. A thermodynamic rule of mixtures based on the work of McQueen et al.<sup>33</sup> suggests a weak contribution to the EOS from the NP reinforcement due to the similar shock impedances of the constituents. The early

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. Representative deformation morphologies in high MW PGN and PS films. TEM images of 75 nm thick films shot at 800 m/s (a1, a2)  $SiO_2$ -PS231, (b1, b2) PS267, and (c1, c2)  $Fe_3O_4$ -PS250. SEM images of exit surface of 550 nm thick films shot at 330 m/s showing the extensive craze patterns and strain localization at the early stages of deformation. (a3, a4)  $SiO_2$ -PS231, (b3, b4) PS267, and (c3, c4)  $Fe_3O_4$ -PS250.

evolution of the shock wave, and associated thermal and pressure distributions, for a two-dimensional model impact of a micron-scale silica projectile on membranes of 75 and 550 nm thickness, impacted at 800 m/s are shown in Figure 1. A shock front immediately begins to propagate into the film, rapidly increasing the temperature due to compressive heating and the large difference in the relative shear rates between the polymer film and silica glass projectile at their common interface (Figure 1a). Strain-rates, and concomitantly temperature (dT/dt) and pressure (dP/dt) rates increase with projectile velocity and can exceed 1010 s-1 at these small length scales. At early impact times, the spherical shock wave propagates into the film and locally deflects the impact-facing portion of the film. Uniform film deflection occurs at much later times since wave propagation is hyperbolic and takes time to cross the film, and reverberate to dynamic equilibrium. The temperature at the projectile-film interface exceeds 250 °C, while adjacent regions exceed the glass transition temperature of polystyrene ( $T_{\rm g}$  ~ 105 °C). For thicker films, the compressive shock heating is limited to the impact side. Temperature rise leads to shear localization at the impact periphery (Figure 1a,b). This increases the probability of initiation of local failure processes such as shear banding, crazing, and fracture. As the film thickness decreases, a larger fraction of the film participates in the initial shock response leading to a more uniform distribution of initial temperature and pressure, and thus a more uniform visco-plastic response. We are not able to quantify the effect of the pressure on the increase of the glass transition temperature as a function of time and position in the films but many of the deformation features in the impact region suggest that the temperature greatly exceeds the effective  $T_{\rm g}$ .

We utilized electron microscopies in order to characterize the deformation microstructure of the films as a function of incident projectile velocity and film thickness (Figure 2 and SI Figures S3-S5). The two low-MW PS graft PGN samples (i.e., SiO<sub>2</sub>-PS20 and Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS35), where canopy interdigitation and entanglements are minimal, unsurprisingly yield brittle films for all thicknesses and impact velocities (SI Figure S6). The projectile creates a near-circular hole, with sharp edges and size equal to the diameter of the projectile and the absorbed kinetic energy is very low, ~0.1 nJ. Compressive shock heating occurs for these films, as for the higher molecular weight films, but the absence of chain entanglements between canopies eliminates the extensive melt draw. Therefore, energy absorption is highly localized at the edge of the circular fracture, consistent with previous quasi-static measurements of strongly decreasing fracture toughness of PGNs with decreased PS chain length, <sup>12,34</sup> and brittle failure of low MW (~30 kg/mol) homopolystyrene films under quasistatic tests 12,34 as well as in LIPIT. 14,16

PGNs with PS grafts having high MW such that the canopies are well entangled along with highly grafted NP nodes are much tougher. There are an average of 458 chains grafted to the silica (SiO<sub>2</sub>–PS231), and only an average of 7.5 chains grafted to the iron oxide (Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>–PS250). For films 300 nm and less in thickness, the projectiles perforate the film at all velocities (Figure 2 and SI Figures S3–S5). Beyond the perforation region, oriented along the two principal stress directions, thick films show fibrillated crazes while the 150 and 75 nm thick films show numerous deformation zones (DZs), or smooth crazes, consistent with DZs typically observed in quasi-static uniaxial thin film deformation at these thicknesses.<sup>35</sup> Based on the length of the radial crazes, the maximum areal range of influence of the projectile on the

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. Thickness dependence, specific energy absorption and schematic of the progression of impact, film deformation and perforation. (a-d)  $E_p^*$  for canopy entangled PGNs and linear PS at various impact velocities and film thicknesses. (e) The influence of film thickness on  $E_p^*$  is strongest for 800 m/s. (f) Notional plot of the local temperature over time showing the initial rapid compressive shock adiabatic heating and longer term visco-plastic heating of the deforming polymer melt. (g and h) Schematics of the sequence of localized deformation events during perforation for 75 and 550 nm films. (i) The central region of the 75 nm film is above  $T_g$  right after impact, while the central region of the 550 nm film shows crazing on the exit surface ( $T_{\rm surface} < T_g$ ). Both films show radial and tangential crazing beyond the edge of the impact region with (ii) greater visco-plastic melt draw in the peripheral regions of the thinner film (H indicates the average draw height) and (iii) final melt rupture with some of the deformed film relaxing back onto the surface and a portion carried away by the projectile. The SiO<sub>2</sub>-PS231, PS267, and Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS250 films were impacted at least 15 times at each velocity and thickness. For example, with the 75 nm film, at 350 m/s (n = 15), at 500 m/s (n = 15) and at 800 m/s (n = 30).

film increases from 40 to 140  $\mu$ m<sup>2</sup>, with the film projectile areal damage influence ranking SiO<sub>2</sub>–PS231 > PS267 > Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>–PS250 (SI Figure S7).

By employing a thicker film and a lower impact velocity, the projectile can be arrested. Figure 2a3, 2a4 show the anterior surface of a thick (550 nm) SiO<sub>2</sub>-PS231 film after arresting the projectile. The  $v_i = 330$  m/s impact deforms the SiO<sub>2</sub>-PS231 film into a hemispherical dome shape accompanied by extremely dense crazing in both the radial and circumferential directions. The sides of the dome region show a texture indicative of strong uniaxial orientation along the direction of the projectile as a result of the circumferential crazes merging and consuming the undeformed islands of the initial film defined by the intersection of the two orientations of the crazes. Outside the impact zone, where the temperature remains below  $T_g$ , one sees long, narrow radial crazes along with a few additional circumferential crazes. This glassy plasticity on the anterior side of thicker films is consistent with the EOS simulations where the initial compressive shock heating is localized at the impact-side of the film. The PS267 homopolymer film shows similar initial deformation microstructure but the radial and circumferential crazes within the dome region exhibit narrower widths (~50 nm) with less elongation of the polymer melt at the periphery (Figure 2b3, 2b4). Lower graft density Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>–PS250 film (Figure 2c3, 2c4) shows even less ductile behavior at the same impact velocity with the average draw height (H) (see 3g and 3h) of the viscoelastic melt the shortest among the PGNs and PS267

films  $(H_{SiO_2-PS231} > H_{PS267} > H_{Fe_3O_4-PS250})$  exhibiting the same ranking as for the measured areal damage.

The translational kinetic energy (KE) loss of the microprojectiles due to perforation of the film is given by  $\Delta KE = \frac{1}{2}m_p(v_i^2 - v_r^2) = E_p + E_{\text{drag}}, \text{ where } v_i, v_r, m_p, E_p, \text{ and}$  $E_{\rm drag}$  are initial velocity, residual velocity, mass of the projectile, energy loss for perforation and drag energy loss contribution (see SI). A quantitative means to compare the influence of PGN architecture, film thickness, and impact velocity on the efficiency of KE extraction from the projectile is the specific energy absorption,  $E_p^* = E_p/A_p h_0 \rho_0$ , where  $A_p h_0 \rho_0$  is the mass of a plug of the material defined by the projected strike area  $A_p$  of the incident projectile, the initial film density  $\rho_0$ , and the initial film thickness  $h_0$ . The  $E_n^*$  values for entangled high MW PGN films and linear PS films are compared in Figures 3a-d. For the ranges of film thicknesses and velocities explored, the specific energy absorption again ranks in the order of SiO<sub>2</sub>- $PS231 > PS267 > Fe_3O_4 - PS250$  (Figures 3a-e). All the V50 values (the velocity at which half of the projectiles perforate the film), based on the 550 nm films also rank in the same way (V50:  $SiO_2$ -PS231 ~396 m/s; PS267 ~373 m/s;  $Fe_3O_4$ -PS250 ~337 m/s) (see SI). For the thinnest, 75 nm films,  $E_n^*$ for the SiO<sub>2</sub>-PS231 is greater than the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS250 film, and exceeds that of PS267 by 25%, the largest  $E_n^*$  for a glassy polymer impacted at 800 m/s reported to date (3.4 MJ/kg). The dependence of  $E_v^*$  on film thickness is most evident at an impact velocity of 800 m/s (Figure 3e). Tabulated  $E_n$  and  $E_n^*$ values for all film thicknesses and projectile velocities are included in SI Table S1—S3, and reflect the average of at least 15 measurements for each condition.

The superior performance of SiO<sub>2</sub>-PS231 is consistent with the larger areal damage zone and a more extended melt drawn cone and flaps surrounding the impact site (e.g., Figure 2a1-2a4). Additionally, the impact simulations (Figure 1) imply thinner films facilitate conditions (temperature and stress) around the impact site periphery that would promote melt draw. Furthermore, geometric constraints at the NP surface and interfaces of PGN film assemblies alter canopy entanglements and influence chain mobility, as seen in homopolymers.<sup>21,35–37</sup> Notably, for a monolayer PGN film, canopy entanglements are confined to the interparticle volume within in the film, with essentially no overlap between canopies possible at the film surfaces directly above or below a nanoparticle core.<sup>38</sup> For the 75 nm film, only one SiO<sub>2</sub> PGN spans the film thickness and must lie near the film center, whereas 2-3 span the thickness for the smaller core Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> PGNs (Table 1). The modified PGN interactions in these near-surface regions likely enhance the initial ductility of the

The evolution of the film deformation during perforation is depicted schematically in Figure 3g, and 3h for the thin vs. thick film. After the initial shock compression, the central region of the thin film is well above, while the anterior portion of the thicker film remains below  $T_{\rm g}$ . Deformation proceeds by the continued widening and merging of the circumferential crazes leading to a thinned cone of molten polymer (consistent with the simulations where temperature and stress are highest at the impact periphery). In the case of the thicker film, increased strain localization at the impact periphery results in less melt elongation. Eventually, after further significant elongation, the thermally softened, highly elongated flap ruptures and the sphere carries away a portion of the stretched, ruptured film. After rupture, the elongated melt film partially retracts, as evidenced by the occasionally smaller diameter of the perforation than that of the projectile in the thicker films (see SI Figures S3–S5).

# **CONCLUSIONS**

The variation of the entanglement density throughout the film, the number of entanglements per canopy, and the total length of the tethered chains all positively influence the energy absorbing abilities. Herein, the nodal nanoparticle cross-links in SiO<sub>2</sub>-PS231 apparently result in more polymer draw around the periphery of the impact site due to the larger number of effective entanglements between near-neighbor PGNs than the nodal Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> network in Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS250 comprised of longer chains (250 kg/mol vs. 231 kg/mol) but with smaller cores with many fewer chains grafted per node. However, there is likely a diminishing return for increasing core and canopy size to increase melt strength at these strain rates due to the eventual onset of bond breakage either by scission of entangled chains or by bond fracture at the polymer-NP interface. Thus, the interplay of nanoparticle shape, size, volume fraction, polymer graft density, and polymer entanglement length on local segment mobility, as well as their influence on the number and spatial distribution of entanglements and the nodal nanoparticle network combine together to determine the energy dissipation, melt viscosity and tenacity. Overall, the ability to blend nanoparticle functionality with polymer responsivity under these extreme shock events suggests substantial opportunities for multifunctional protection systems to enhance a wide range of technologies.

# **MATERIALS AND METHODS**

**Details of the LIPIT Apparatus.** The projectile launch pad is similar to previous LIPIT studies. Ten nm gold is coated onto 22  $\times$  22 mm² coverslip (Fisherbrand 12-541-B) using a Denton sputter (Denton Desk V Sputter System). Next, 20  $\mu$ m of a PDMS film (Sylgard 184, Dow Chemical) is applied using a spin coater (WS-400BZ-6NPP/LITE) at 3000–4000 rpm. After removing residual air pockets under vacuum, the PDMS pads are cross-linked by post baking at 60 °C for 24 h. 3.7  $\mu$ m silica particles (microParticles GmbH, density = 1900 kg/m³) are dispersed in ethanol solution (0.02 wt %). A few drops (10  $\mu$ L pipet) of the solution was placed onto the PDMS pad and the particles are spread across the surface using a lab wipe sheet (Kimberly-Clark Kimwipe).

Projectile launch is illustrated in SI Figure S1. A single 1064 nm laser pulse is incident normal to the projectile-launch pad and the gold layer. The intense laser pulse ablates the gold film forming a plasma under the PDMS film, rapidly expanding the cross-linked rubber and accelerating the silica projectile toward the target. A pair of weak, incoherent 640 nm pulses ( $\Delta t \sim 34.5$  ns) illuminate the flying projectile as it moves toward the polymer target allowing determination of the impact velocity or after perforation of the target, determination of the residual velocity. An optical microscope equipped with CCD camera records the transmitted pulses to calculate in-flight projectile velocity. The impact velocity of the projectile is reproducible within a standard deviation of 2–5%.

**Materials and Characterization.** All materials were used as received. Linear, atactic polystyrene with an average MW of 267 kg/mol (P10486A-S) and 30 kg/mol (P19073B-S) with polydispersities of 1.15 and 1.02, respectively, were purchased from Polymer Source.

For post-LIPIT deformation characterization, high resolution transmission electron microscopy images of the Fe $_3$ O $_4$ -PS thin films were acquired with a JEOL-1230 TEM using an acceleration voltage of 80 kV. Tilted and normal incidence SEM micrographs of SiO $_2$ -PS, Fe $_3$ O $_4$ -PS and homopolystyrene thin films were acquired employing a ThermoFisher Helios 660 at 1 kV with 500 V stage bias to eliminate charging. Differential scanning calorimetry (TA Instrument Q2000) was used to determine  $T_g$  for all PGN samples. Final  $T_g$  values are calculated as an average of two 10 °C/min cooling and heating runs.

Thin Film Preparation and Surface Roughness Estimate. Thin films of homopolymer PS and PGN assemblies ( $h_0 = 75-550$  nm) were prepared by flow coating dilute toluene solutions (1-5 w/ w%) onto a glass slide in the Landau-Levich regime, <sup>39</sup> floating the dried film onto water to transfer to a nickel TEM grid, and thermally annealing at ~120 °C for 24 h.

Tapping mode atomic force microscopy (Veeco Dimension 3100) was used to investigate thin film surface roughness and topography. AFM tips contained an aluminum reflex coating with a resonant frequency of 190 kHz and a force constant of 40 N/m. Surface roughness for each film was calculated by taking the root-mean-square error of five representative  $5 \times 5 \, \mu \text{m}^2$  AFM images. Depending on the sample, film roughness ranged from 0.2–0.9 nm. On occasion and only for the thicker films, we observe small dimples on the surface of the film (ranging from 2–10 nm in depth) due to the condensation of water vapor induced by rapid solvent evaporation and subsequent surface cooling.  $^{40,41}$  We find that these features do not statistically impact the results of this study.

**PGN Synthesis and Characterization.** Fe $_3O_4$  nanoparticles were synthesized by the high-temperature thermal decomposition method and stabilized with oleic acid or oleyl-amine. Particle radii were measured by TEM as  $3.9 \pm 0.6$  nm. Fe $_3O_4$  PS PGNs were synthesized using surface-initiated reversible addition—fragmentation transfer (RAFT) polymerization methods.  $^{8,42}$  SiO $_2$  particles were obtained from Nissan with an approximate radius of  $8.0 \pm 2.8$  nm. SiO $_2$  PS PGNs were synthesized using atom transfer radical polymerization (ATRP).  $^{3.1}$  A low molecular initiator species (2-

<span id="page-6-0"></span>bromo-isobutyrate derivative) is initially covalently attached to the particle surface using a silanization reaction. The polymer is then subsequently polymerized from the surface. For both sets of PGNs, the grafted polymer was etched from the nanoparticle surface using hydrofluoric acid. Polymer molecular weight and molecular weight distributions were then determined by gel permeation chromatography. Thermogravimetric analysis was used to calculate PS graft

density,  $\sum$ , where  $\Sigma = \left(\frac{w_{PS} + w_{CTA}}{100 - w_{PS} - w_{CTA}} - \frac{w_{CTA}}{100 - w_{CTA}}\right) \frac{N_A \rho_{NP}}{3\pi r_0 M_n}$  and  $w_{PS}$ ,  $w_{CTA}$   $N_A$ , and  $\rho_{NP}$  are the experimental weight loss of PS, the experimental weight loss of chain transfer agent (CTA) or surface initiation ligand, Avogadro's number, and the density of iron oxide (5240 kg/m³) or silica (1900 kg/m³), respectively. Separate TGA measurements of the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-CTA complex gives  $\frac{w_{CTA}}{100 - w_{CTA}} = 0.2$ . In

the case for the SiO $_2$  PGNs, surface initiation ligands were not taken into account when measuring TGA to determine graft density ( $\frac{w_{CTA}}{100-w_{CTA}}$  was not measured). We note that for the large molecular

weight grafts which are the focus of this study, this would result in only a  $\sim\!\!1\%$  overestimation of graft density. It should also be noted that volume fraction calculations herein slightly differ from those in Jiao et al. 2018,  $^8$  which used 900 kg/m $^3$  and 5740 kg/m $^3$  for the densities of polystyrene and Fe $_3{\rm O}_4$ , respectively. Thus, the correct value for the volume % of NP in the Fe $_3{\rm O}_4$ –PS250 sample is 6.4% not 5.1%.

**Nanoparticle Spacing.** Nanoparticle spacing in single-component PGN films has previously been shown to be consistent with the closest approach between two particles,  $^{43}$  determined by twice the canopy height and calculated from nanoparticle size and volume percent (SI Figure S2). Using simple geometrical arguments, the volume of a single PGN (volume of polymer canopy  $(V_{\rm polymer})$  + NP volume  $(V_{\rm NP})$ ) was fit to that of a sphere. Approximate nanoparticle center—center distance is thus two times the radius of that sphere. These values are consistent with distances estimated from TEM images showing 2D projections of 75 nm thick films.

# **ASSOCIATED CONTENT**

### Supporting Information

The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acsnano.0c06146.

Schematics of the LIPIT instrument and of PGN chain entanglements, additional images of perforations for different films, thicknesses and impact velocities, estimation of V50, information on the hydrocode simulations, and shock wave motion across the film (PDF)

# **AUTHOR INFORMATION**

# **Corresponding Authors**

Edwin L. Thomas — Department of Materials Science & NanoEngineering, Rice University, Houston, Texas 77005, United States; Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas 77840, United States; orcid.org/0000-0001-5911-6524; Email: elt@tamu.edu

Richard A. Vaia – Materials and Manufacturing Directorate, Air Force Research Laboratory, Wright Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio 45433-7750, United States;

orcid.org/0000-0003-4589-3423; Email: richard.vaia@us.af.mil

## Authors

Jinho Hyon – Department of Materials Science & NanoEngineering, Rice University, Houston, Texas 7700S, United States; Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas 77840, United States; orcid.org/0000-0002-6123-6653

Manny Gonzales – Materials and Manufacturing Directorate, Air Force Research Laboratory, Wright Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio 45433-7750, United States

Jason K. Streit – Materials and Manufacturing Directorate, Air Force Research Laboratory, Wright Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio 45433-7750, United States

Omri Fried – Department of Materials Science & NanoEngineering, Rice University, Houston, Texas 77005, United States

Olawale Lawal — Department of Materials Science & NanoEngineering, Rice University, Houston, Texas 77005, United States; United States Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, Colorado 80840, United States

Yang Jiao – Materials and Manufacturing Directorate, Air Force Research Laboratory, Wright Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio 45433-7750, United States

Lawrence F. Drummy — Materials and Manufacturing Directorate, Air Force Research Laboratory, Wright Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio 45433-7750, United States; orcid.org/0000-0002-6452-5768

Complete contact information is available at: https://pubs.acs.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c06146

#### Notes

The authors declare no competing financial interest.

#### **ACKNOWLEDGMENTS**

J.H., O.F., O.W., and E.L.T. thank the Dell Butcher Chair of Engineering fund at Rice University for partial financial support, Mr. Mario E. Norton for schematic figures, and Dr. Kyung Hyun Lee of the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston for assistance with the V50 calculations. M.G., J.S., Y.J., and R.A.V. gratefully acknowledge funding from the Air Force Office of Scientific Research and the Air Force Research Laboratory's Materials and Manufacturing Directorate.

## **REFERENCES**

- (1) Siviour, C. R.; Jordan, J. L. High Strain Rate Mechanics of Polymers: A Review. *J. Dyn. Behav. Mater.* **2016**, *2*, 15–32.
- (2) Argon, A. S. The Physics of Deformation and Fracture of Polymers; Cambridge Universisty Press: Cambridge, 2013.
- (3) Meyers, M. A. Dynamic Behavior of Materials; John Wiley & Sons, Inc.: New York, 1994.
- (4) Kumar, S. K.; Benicewicz, B. C.; Vaia, R. A.; Winey, K. I. 50th Anniversary Perspective: Are Polymer Nanocomposites Practical for Applications? *Macromolecules* **2017**, *50*, 714–731.
- (5) Zhou, T. H.; Ruan, W. H.; Rong, M. Z.; Zhang, M. Q.; Mai, Y. L. Keys to Toughening of Non-Layered Nanoparticles/Polymer Composites. *Adv. Mater.* **2007**, *19*, 2667–2671.
- (6) Zare, Y. Study of Nanoparticles Aggregation/Agglomeration in Polymer Particulate Nanocomposites by Mechanical Properties. *Composites, Part A* **2016**, *84*, 158–164.
- (7) Fernandes, N. J.; Koerner, H.; Giannelis, E. P.; Vaia, R. A. Hairy Nanoparticle Assemblies as One-Component Functional Polymer Nanocomposites: Opportunities and Challenges. *MRS Commun.* **2013**, *3*, 13–29.
- (8) Jiao, Y.; Tibbits, A.; Gillman, A.; Hsiao, M.-S.; Buskohl, P.; Drummy, L. F.; Vaia, R. A. Deformation Behavior of Polystyrene-Grafted Nanoparticle Assemblies with Low Grafting Density. *Macromolecules* **2018**, *51*, 7257–7265.

- <span id="page-7-0"></span>(9) Williams, G. A.; Ishige, R.; Cromwell, O. R.; Chung, J.; Takahara, A.; Guan, Z[. Mechanically Robust and Self-Healable](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adma.201500927) [Superlattice Nanocomposites by Self-Assembly of Single-Component](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adma.201500927) "Sticky" [Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticles.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adma.201500927) Adv. Mater. 2015, 27, 3934− 3941.
- (10) Kubiak, J. M.; Macfarlane, R. J. [Forming Covalent Crosslinks](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201905168) [between Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticles as a Route to Highly Filled](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201905168) [and Mechanically Robust Nanocomposites.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201905168) Adv. Funct. Mater. 2019, 29, 1905168.
- (11) Kumar, S. K.; Jouault, N.; Benicewicz, B.; Neely, T. [Nanocomposites with Polymer Grafted Nanoparticles.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ma4001385) Macromolecules 2013, 46, 3199−3214.
- (12) Ethier, J. G.; Drummy, L. F.; Vaia, R. A.; Hall, L. M[. Uniaxial](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.9b05001) [Deformation and Crazing in Glassy Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticle](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.9b05001) [Ultrathin Films.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.9b05001) ACS Nano 2019, 13, 12816−12829.
- (13) Lee, J.-H.; Loya, P. E.; Lou, J.; Thomas, E. L[. Dynamic](https://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1258544) [Mechanical Behavior of Multilayer Graphene](https://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1258544) via Supersonic Projectile [Penetration.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1258544) Science 2014, 346, 1092−1096.
- (14) Hyon, J.; Lawal, O.; Fried, O.; Thevamaran, R.; Yazdi, S.; Zhou, M.; Veysset, D.; Kooi, S. E.; Jiao, Y.; Hsiao, M.-S.; Streit, J.; Vaia, R. A.; Thomas, E. L[. Extreme Energy Absorption in Glassy Polymer Thin](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.mattod.2018.07.014) [Films by Supersonic Micro-Projectile Impact.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.mattod.2018.07.014) Mater. Today 2018, 21, 817−824.
- (15) Chan, E. P.; Xie, W.; Orski, S. V.; Lee, J.-H.; Soles, C. L. [Entanglement Density-Dependent Energy Absorption of Polycarbon](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acsmacrolett.9b00264)ate Films via [Supersonic Fracture.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acsmacrolett.9b00264) ACS Macro Lett. 2019, 8, 806−811.
- (16) Xie, W.; Lee, J.-H. [Dynamics of Entangled Networks in](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.9b02265) [Ultrafast Perforation of Polystyrene Nanomembranes.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.9b02265) Macromolecules 2020, 53, 1701−1705.
- (17) Cai, J.; Thevamaran, R. [Superior Energy Dissipation by](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.0c00066) [Ultrathin Semicrystalline Polymer Films under Supersonic Micro](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.0c00066)[projectile Impacts.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.0c00066) Nano Lett. 2020, 20, 5632.
- (18) Dean, J.; Dunleavy, C.; Brown, P.; Clyne, T. [Energy Absorption](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijimpeng.2009.05.002) [During Projectile Perforation of Thin Steel Plates and the Kinetic](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijimpeng.2009.05.002) [Energy of Ejected Fragments.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijimpeng.2009.05.002) International Journal of Impact Engineering 2009, 36, 1250−1258.
- (19) Lee, B.; Walsh, T.; Won, S.; Patts, H.; Song, J.; Mayer, A. [Penetration Failure Mechanisms of Armor-Grade Fiber Composites](https://dx.doi.org/10.1106/YRBH-JGT9-U6PT-L555) [under Impact.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1106/YRBH-JGT9-U6PT-L555) J. Compos. Mater. 2001, 35, 1605−1633.
- (20) Kim, J. H.; Jang, J.; Zin, W.-C[. Estimation of the Thickness](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/la991618t) [Dependence of the Glass Transition Temperature in Various Thin](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/la991618t) [Polymer Films.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/la991618t) Langmuir 2000, 16, 4064−4067.
- (21) Si, L.; Massa, M. V.; Dalnoki-Veress, K.; Brown, H. R.; Jones, R. A. [Chain Entanglement in Thin Freestanding Polymer Films.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.94.127801) Phys. Rev. Lett. 2005, 94, 127801.
- (22) Kim, S. A.; Mangal, R.; Archer, L. A[. Relaxation Dynamics of](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.5b00791) [Nanoparticle-Tethered Polymer Chains.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.5b00791) Macromolecules 2015, 48, 6280−6293.
- (23) Laun, H.; Schuch, H. [Transient Elongational Viscosities and](https://dx.doi.org/10.1122/1.550058) [Drawability of Polymer Melts.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1122/1.550058) J. Rheol. 1989, 33, 119−175.
- (24) Wagner, M.; Schulze, V.; Göttfert, A. [Rheotens-Mastercurves](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/pen.10480) [and Drawability of Polymer Melts.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/pen.10480) Polym. Eng. Sci. 1996, 36, 925− 935.
- (25) Read, D. J.; Auhl, D.; Das, C.; Den Doelder, J.; Kapnistos, M.; Vittorias, I.; McLeish, T. C. [Linking Models of Polymerization and](https://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1207060) [Dynamics to Predict Branched Polymer Structure and Flow.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1207060) Science 2011, 333, 1871−1874.
- (26) Dealy, J. M.; Read, D. J.; Larson, R. G. Structure and Rheology of Molten Polymers: From Structure to Flow Behavior and Back Again; Carl Hanser Verlag: Munich, 2018.
- (27) Srivastava, S.; Shin, J. H.; Archer, L. A[. Structure and Rheology](https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c2sm06889c) of Nanoparticle−[Polymer Suspensions.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c2sm06889c) Soft Matter 2012, 8, 4097− 4108.
- (28) Schmitt, M.; Choi, J.; Hui, C. M.; Chen, B.; Korkmaz, E.; Yan, J.; Margel, S.; Ozdoganlar, O. B.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R. [Processing Fragile Matter: Effect of Polymer Graft Modification on](https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C6SM00095A) [the Mechanical Properties and Processibility of \(Nano-\) Particulate](https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C6SM00095A) [Solids.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C6SM00095A) Soft Matter 2016, 12, 3527−3537.

- (29) Midya, J.; Cang, Y.; Egorov, S. A.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R.; Nikoubashman, A.; Fytas, G[. Disentangling the](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.9b00817) [Role of Chain Conformation on the Mechanics of Polymer Tethered](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.9b00817) [Particle Materials.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.9b00817) Nano Lett. 2019, 19, 2715−2722.
- (30) Ethier, J. G.; Hall, L. M[. Modeling Individual and Pairs of](https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C7SM02116J) [Adsorbed Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticles: Structure and Entangle](https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C7SM02116J)[ments.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C7SM02116J) Soft Matter 2018, 14, 643−652.
- (31) Choi, J.; Hui, C. M.; Pietrasik, J.; Dong, H.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R. [Toughening Fragile Matter: Mechanical Properties](https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c2sm06915f) [of Particle Solids Assembled from Polymer-Grafted Hybrid Particles](https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c2sm06915f) [Synthesized by ATRP.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c2sm06915f) Soft Matter 2012, 8, 4072−4082.
- (32) Millett, J.; Bourne, N. [The Shock Induced Equation of State of](https://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0022-3727/37/20/018) [Three Simple Polymers.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0022-3727/37/20/018) J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 2004, 37, 2901.
- (33) McQueen, R.; Marsh, S.; Taylor, J.; Fritz, J.; Carter, W. High Velocity Impact Phenomena; Academic Press: New York, 1970; pp 273−417.
- (34) Hasegawa, H.; Ohta, T.; Ito, K.; Yokoyama, H[. Stress-Strain](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2017.07.018) [Measurement of Ultra-Thin Polystyrene Films: Film Thickness and](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2017.07.018) [Molecular Weight Dependence of Crazing Stress.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2017.07.018) Polymer 2017, 123, 179−183.
- (35) Kramer, E. J.; Berger, L. L., Fundamental Processes of Craze Growth and Fracture. Crazing in Polymers; Springer: Berlin, Heidelberg, 1990; Vol. 2, pp 1−68.
- (36) Bucknall, C. [Role of Surface Chain Mobility in Crazing.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2012.08.034) Polymer 2012, 53, 4778−4786.
- (37) Bay, R. K.; Shimomura, S.; Liu, Y.; Ilton, M.; Crosby, A. J. [Confinement Effect on Strain Localizations in Glassy Polymer Films.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.8b00385) Macromolecules 2018, 51, 3647−3653.
- (38) Ethier, J. G.; Hall, L. M[. Structure and Entanglement Network](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.8b01373) [of Model Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticle Monolayers.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.8b01373) Macromolecules 2018, 51, 9878−9889.
- (39) Stafford, C. M.; Roskov, K. E.; Epps, T. H., III; Fasolka, M. J. [Generating Thickness Gradients of Thin Polymer Films](https://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.2173072) via Flow [Coating.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.2173072) Rev. Sci. Instrum. 2006, 77, 023908.
- (40) Bunz, U. H. F. [Breath Figures as a Dynamic Templating](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adma.200501131) [Method for Polymers and Nanomaterials.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adma.200501131) Adv. Mater. 2006, 18, 973− 989.
- (41) Srinivasarao, M.; Collings, D.; Philips, A.; Patel, S. [Three-](https://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1057887)[Dimensionally Ordered Array of Air Bubbles in a Polymer Film.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1057887) Science 2001, 292, 79−83.
- (42) Jiao, Y.; Akcora, P. [Accelerated Brush Growth on Nanoparticle](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/pola.27170) [Surfaces by Reversible Addition-Fragmentation Chain Transfer](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/pola.27170) [Polymerization.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/pola.27170) J. Polym. Sci., Part A: Polym. Chem. 2014, 52, 1700−1705.
- (43) Koerner, H.; Opsitnick, E.; Grabowski, C. A.; Drummy, L. F.; Hsiao, M.-S.; Che, J.; Pike, M.; Person, V.; Bockstaller, M. R.; Meth, J. S. [Physical Aging and Glass Transition of Hairy Nanoparticle](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/polb.23931) [Assemblies.](https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/polb.23931) J. Polym. Sci., Part B: Polym. Phys. 2016, 54, 319−330.