pubs.acs.org/Macromolecules Article

# Activated Gas Transport in Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticle Membranes

Robert J. Tannenbaum, Natalia Cislo, Eric Ruzicka, Pablo A. Dean, Zachary P. Smith, Brian C. Benicewicz, and Sanat K. Kumar\*

Cite This: Macromolecules 2023, 56, 3954-3961

**ACCESS** I

III Metrics & More

Article Recommendations

s Supporting Information

ABSTRACT: Carbon capture and related gas separation processes are critical tools in our efforts to combat climate change. While polymer membranes are seen as a central construct to achieve these goals, their performance needs further improvement to meet current sustainability goals. It is in this context that membranes composed of polymer-grafted nanoparticles (GNPs) become highly germane. Previous work has shown that gas transport in pure GNP membranes can be strongly enhanced relative to that in the corresponding neat polymer. Additionally, we found that larger gases display greater degrees of permeability enhancement than smaller ones. There is currently no clear

understanding of these two underpinning facts, and to address this issue, we have characterized the activation energy driving the permeability of multiple gases in several GNP membranes. Our results show that gases smaller than a critical size display the same activation energy as in the native polymer—any enhancement therefore is associated with changes in local gas/chain dynamics, e.g., the speeding up of polymer dynamics due to the local stretching in a brush conformation. Our results are consistent with the notion that small gases are present in the whole polymer layer. Conversely, larger gases show substantially lower activation energies and, in contrast to the neat polymer, exhibit essentially no dependence on penetrant size. Sorption measurements illustrate that this is a result of the enhanced solubility of larger gases in GNPs, relative to that in the pure polymer, which is reflected in their significantly more favorable enthalpies of solvation. Larger gases thus preferentially sorb into the interstitial spaces in the GNP assembly, thereby resulting in even higher permeability enhancements in the GNP layers relative to smaller gases. GNPs, therefore, provide us with multiple handles to control gas transport, a fact that offers critical insights into their utility for gas separations.

## **■ INTRODUCTION**

Separation processes are critical in numerous applications from large-scale distillation to air purification and filtration. Membrane technologies provide a less energy-intensive and more cost-effective alternative to current industry standards.<sup>2</sup> Glassy polymers are frequently employed as low-cost sizeselective gas separators.<sup>3</sup> Solute transport in these materials can be described by the solution-diffusion model  $(P_i = S_i \times D_i)$ , where the permeability of gas i,  $P_{ij}$  is given as the product of the penetrant solubility,  $S_i$ , and its corresponding diffusivity in the material,  $D_i$ .  $P_i$  represents a measure of flux normalized by film thickness and pressure driving force, and the ideal selectivity  $(\alpha_{ij} = \frac{P_i}{P_i})$  quantifies the transport preference for one penetrant over another. These membranes are typically limited by a performance trade-off, as represented by the Robeson upper bound line where increasing permeability is correlated with a decrease in selectivity.<sup>4-6</sup>

Much work in this field has focused on improving this upper bound by using novel polymeric chemistries, e.g., thermally rearranged (TR) polymers and polymers of intrinsic microporosity (PIMs).<sup>7–9</sup> Another approach is through the addition

of inorganic nanoparticles (NPs) into the polymer to form "mixed matrix" membranes (MMMs). <sup>10</sup> According to effective medium theory, the addition of inert impenetrable NPs should inhibit transport through the media. For example, Maxwell's

theory,  $P_{\varphi}=P_{\mathrm{n}}\!\!\left(\frac{1-\varphi}{1+\frac{\varphi}{2}}\!\right)\!\!$ , suggests a decrease in permeability with

increasing filler fraction,  $\varphi$ , where  $P_{\varphi}$  and  $P_{\rm n}$  are the permeabilities for the composite and neat polymer, respectively. The Given this theory, it is surprising that it was found that adding nonporous silica NPs to glassy amorphous polymers can enhance both the permeability and the selectivity of low-molecular-weight hydrocarbons over smaller penetrant gases. This was conjectured to be due to a lack of energetic preference of the polymer for the NPs, leading to an apparent

Received: February 7, 2023 Revised: April 5, 2023 Published: May 15, 2023

increase in "free-volume"; "free-volume" typically refers to the unoccupied volume in a fluid due to internal fluctuations combined with a static contribution resulting from imperfect chain packing. <sup>13,14</sup> However, this lack of energetic preference also leads to the immiscibility between the polymer and the NPs and causes the NP dispersion state to be strongly dependent on preparation and aging conditions. <sup>7</sup>

Polymer-grafted nanoparticle membranes (GNPs) mitigate these difficulties by having the polymer chains chemically tethered to the NP surface; since there are no free chains, we term this state as "matrix-free". These GNPs have been found to have tunable permeability controlled through variations in NP radius, the number of chains tethered per unit surface area (grafting density  $(\sigma)$ ), and the length of the attached polymer chains (indicated by molecular weight,  $M_{\rm n}$ ). In the limit of moderate-to-high grafting density, the chains are overcrowded near the surface, and hence, they assume extended conformations, termed "polymer brushes". In this regime, there is a marked enhancement in GNP gas permeability, with this improvement going through a maximum at intermediate molecular weight (Figure 1). The degree of enhancement

**Figure 1.** Gas permeability in impenetrable spherical silica NPs (14 nm diameter) grafted with polymethylacrylate (PMA) (graft density  $\sigma \approx 0.47$  chains/nm²), relative to neat PMA, as a function of square of the penetrant kinetic diameter, for various graft molecular weights. Generally, larger penetrants  $({d_k}^2 > 11 \text{ Å}^2)$  display greater degrees of enhancement relative to lighter gases.

relative to that of the neat polymer is greater for larger gases. We have also shown through positron annihilation lifetime spectroscopy (PALS) that the apparent "free-volume" in the system goes through a maximum as a function of graft  $M_n$ .<sup>13</sup> Quasi-elastic neutron scattering (QENS) on pure GNP materials, which focus on the local segmental dynamics of the grafted chains, also show an increase in the elementary jump length at intermediate  $M_n$  along with a significantly speeded-up motional time scale for these local jumps. 15 Similarly, the activation energy for local motion goes through a minimum at these intermediate graft chain lengths. Here, we go beyond this work, which has looked only at the polymer matrix, and instead characterize the activation energy for the permeability of different gases in the GNPs. Our results clearly show that, while small gases encounter the same activation energy as in the pure matrix, larger gases experience a significantly reduced activation energy. Complementary sorption measurements show that this is because larger gases are significantly more soluble in the GNPs relative to that in

the pure polymer and hence have more favorable solvation enthalpies than in the pure matrices. Previous work has illustrated that these large gases preferentially partition to the interstitial spaces in the nanoparticle packing, as do added free chains with the same molecular weight as the brush. Consistent with this notion, activation energies for the permeability of large gases assume values closer to those in the bulk polymer when we add (relatively) small amounts of free chains. Our results clearly show that small gases tend to be present in the whole polymer layer. Their increased permeabilities in the GNP (relative to the neat polymer) can thus be attributed to faster local dynamics and larger hop lengths associated with chain monomer motion. We therefore postulate that gas motion is subservient to segmental dynamics. In addition to the diffusional speedups, larger gases preferentially sorb into the interstitial spaces, giving them even higher solubility (and hence permeability) enhancements in the GNP layers relative to smaller gases. Our results thus show that GNPs speed up the diffusive transport for all gases and that solubility enhancements only occur for larger gases.

#### ■ ACTIVATED PENETRANT TRANSPORT

Historically, the diffusion of gas molecules in polymeric media,  $D_{\varphi}$ , has been found to have an Arrhenius temperature dependence:  $^{16}$   $D_{\varphi} = D_0 e^{-E_D/RT}$ , where  $D_0$  is a constant, R is the gas constant, and T is the temperature.  $E_{\rm D}$  is the activation energy describing transport through the media, and Meares and Barrer proposed that it was dependent on both the penetrant size and a "free-volume" element in the polymer. The inclusion of this "element" is necessary for their model to account for the fact that this activation energy is larger than that needed just for the creation of a transport "hole". 17-19 The Brandt model builds on this idea and includes five key assumptions: (1) the activated state involves the separation of 2 chains; these chains need not be parallel to each other. (2) The activation energy is the sum of the penetrant's requirement to overcome chain intermolecular repulsion and the intramolecular resistance due to bonding as it pushes past the chains. (3) Intramolecular rotational motion is distributed across the chain backbone such that torsional strain is evenly distributed. (4) The degrees of freedom for a chain segment are proportional to their length. (5) The probability that these degrees of freedom  $\nu$  will contribute to penetrant diffusion is  $(1/2)^{\nu}$ .  $^{20-24}$ 

In summarizing theoretical and experimental results from Meares,  $^{18}$  Brandt,  $^{20}$  and Van Krevelen,  $^{25}$  Freeman et al. expanded on the penetrant's size dependence for transport by proposing a linear relationship between  $E_{\rm D}$  and the square of penetrant kinetic diameter,  $d_{\rm k}$ , for small gases in glassy systems:  $^{14,26-28}$ 

$$E_{\rm D} = cd_{\rm k}^2 - f$$

$$d_{\rm c} = \sqrt{f/c}$$

where c and f are empirical constants.  $d_c$  (a critical size parameter) is the theoretical smallest penetrant diameter that would not require any activation for transport. The validity of these relationships has been demonstrated for gas diffusion in a wide variety of polymers, including systems with flexible backbones (e.g., PDMS), semi-rigid backbones (e.g., polycarbonates, PVC), and extremely rigid backbones (poly-

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 2. (a) Temperature dependence of permeability in GNPs with  $\sigma \approx 0.42$  chains/nm² grafted with PMA chains with  $M_{\rm n} \sim 98$  kDa for three representative gases, CO<sub>2</sub>, N<sub>2</sub>, and CH<sub>4</sub>. Activation energies for permeability are calculated from Arrhenius fits. (b) Activation energy of permeability for various GNP systems as a function of the square of gas kinetic diameter. Small gases follow the neat melt data, while larger penetrants display a plateauing effect (see Supporting Information for nPMA reference data). (c) Van Amerongen plot of the Arrhenius pre-factor as a function of activation energy, displaying the enthalpy—entropy compensation effect for GNP systems. (d) Activation energy for GNPs with  $\sigma \approx 0.42$  chains/nm² grafted with PMA chains with  $M_{\rm n} \sim 98$  kDa compared with the same system with 5 wt % of free 96 kDa PMA added. The homopolymer, localizing within the interstitial region, inhibits large penetrant transport and increases the energy barrier to the neat melt.

imides).<sup>5</sup> While the Freeman and Brandt models were developed with a focus on diffusion in glassy polymers, we postulate that we can treat permeability, the product of diffusivity and solubility, in a similar fashion owing to the jammed colloidal nature of our systems and the fact that our previously observed permeability enhancements are due primarily to increases in the diffusion coefficient.<sup>13</sup> Thus, we write  $P_{\varphi} = P_0 \mathrm{e}^{-E_\mathrm{p}/RT}$ , where  $E_\mathrm{p} = c_\mathrm{p} d_\mathrm{k}^2 - f_\mathrm{p}$ . This work will therefore utilize  $E_\mathrm{p}$  in GNPs to delineate their gas transport mechanisms. Furthermore, we will highlight disparities that arise in the energy barrier for transport between smaller gases and larger penetrants.

## RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

**Permeability Measurements.** Temperature-dependent permeability measurements were conducted with a constant-volume, variable-pressure apparatus and plotted as a function of the inverse temperature for three representative gases,  $CO_2$  ( $d_k \approx 3.3$  Å),  $N_2$  ( $d_k \approx 3.6$  Å), and  $CH_4$  ( $d_k \approx 3.8$  Å), in the GNPs with  $\sigma \approx 0.42$  chain/nm² grafted with PMA chains with  $M_n \sim 98$  kDa (Figure 2a, data in Supporting Information Figures S2—S4). With the caveat that the data spans less than

one order of magnitude in permeability, we fit them to an Arrhenius form to obtain  $E_{\rm P}$ . These  $E_{\rm P}$  are plotted in Figure 2b along with data for neat PMA (nPMA) as a function of  $d_{\rm k}^2$ . First, note that the results appear to be independent of  $M_{\rm n}$ . For small penetrants ( $d_{\rm k}^2 < 11~{\rm Å}^2$ ), the GNP systems track the neat polymer data, and thus, the  $E_{\rm P}$  varies linearly with  $d_{\rm k}^2$ . For larger gases ( $d_{\rm k}^2 > 11~{\rm Å}^2$ ), the activation energy in the GNP appears to plateau. The plateau for larger penetrants indicates that above a critical gas size, the energy barrier for permeability in GNPs is unaffected by gas size. These data are consistent, to within a factor of 2, with previously reported values for the activation energy of segmental chain motion, thus reinforcing the idea that penetrant transport in these materials is controlled by local chain dynamics.

As with chemical systems that display Arrhenius kinetics, the linear free-energy relationship developed by Van Amerongen  $\left(\ln D_0 = a\frac{E_D}{R} - b, a, b \text{ are constants}\right)$  is followed, demonstrating the enthalpy–entropy compensation effect, where the system entropy (pre-exponential factor obtained via the intercept from the Arrhenius fit) is directly proportional to its enthalpy (activation energy). Figure 2c demonstrates this correlation for GNP systems (utilizing the permeability form

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 3. (a) Solubility of neat PMA and GNP systems versus gas boiling temperature; inset: percent change in penetrant solubility in GNPs ( $\sigma \approx 0.42 \text{ chains/nm}^2$ ) relative to that in neat PMA, with CO<sub>2</sub> about 15% reduced and CH<sub>4</sub> up to 15% improved. (b) Temperature dependence of solubility in GNPs with  $\sigma \approx 0.42 \text{ chains/nm}^2$  grafted with PMA chains with  $M_n \sim 98 \text{ kDa}$ . Equations shown represent Arrhenius fits. (c) Enthalpy of sorption for nPMA and 98 kDa GNP versus gas kinetic diameter. Red dashed line represents qualitative agreement with nPMA for microscopic free energy of hole formation. Red dotted line corresponds to thermodynamic limit for free energy within hole formation discussion. (d) Trends in activation energy for diffusion in nPMA and GNPs with  $\sigma \approx 0.42 \text{ chains/nm}^2$  grafted with PMA chains with  $M_n \sim 98 \text{ kDa}$ . Fit lines are presented as guides to the eye. Data in (c and d) for He, Ne, Ar, and Kr reproduced with permission from ref 33. Copyright 1971 Taylor & Francis.

 $\ln P_0 = a_{\rm p} \frac{E_{\rm p}}{R} - b_{\rm p}$ ), where there is rough agreement to linear compensation to within error.

To further highlight differences in large and small penetrant transport, we measure the  $E_{\rm P}$  of a GNP system with 5 wt % of large  $M_{\rm n} \sim 96$  kDa homopolymer added (Figure 2d). Upon the addition of this homopolymer, which is known to localize in the interstitial region in nanoparticle packing (Figure 4a), the  $E_{\rm P}$  for large penetrant transport assume their values in the neat homopolymer.<sup>31</sup> Our major result is that the reduced  $E_{\rm P}$  seen for the larger gases in the pure GNPs must stem from their preferential placement in the interstitial spaces. We probe the molecular origins of these unexpected findings below.

**Sorption in GNPs.** To better understand the activation energy trends in Figure 2, it is important to separately delineate the role of solubility and diffusivity—to this end, we conducted a series of solubility measurements in the GNPs. Solubility data (normalized by polymer volume) in GNPs, in particular how it is enhanced relative to that in the pure polymer, is summarized in Figure 3a. For this study, we have utilized a pressure-decay setup to directly measure the solubility of  $CO_2$ ,  $N_2$ , and  $CH_4$  in pure GNPs with varying graft molecular weights and  $\sigma \approx 0.42$  chains/nm². Clearly, absolute solubilities increase with increasing gas boiling temperature  $T_{\rm b}$ , consistent with previous

work on rubbery polymers. 14,32 While CO2 solubility (representative of small gases) in the GNPs is about 15% below that for neat PMA, CH<sub>4</sub> is 10% or larger in the GNPs; the peak CH<sub>4</sub> permeability sample with  $M_n \approx 98$  kDa displays the greatest increase (15%). The trends found for the small gases follow Maxwell theory, while the data for the large gases are unexpected. However, this is consistent with the notion that the lower density interstitial space preferentially sorbs the larger gas. Focusing on absolute solubilities, larger gases, which have lower solubilities, will preferentially sample this interstitial region, providing greater relative solubility enhancement. Penetrants that dissolve in greater quantities (i.e., CO<sub>2</sub>) will sample more of the grafted polymer layer and thus yield lower enhancements. These results, especially those for the larger gases, go beyond our previous work, which suggested that solubility in the GNPs essentially tracked that in the pure polymer but to a large uncertainty. 13 We note that the current measurements, which directly evaluated solubility, provide greater statistical confidence than our previous work where we measured the gas permeability and diffusivity and from there indirectly deduced the solubility.

We further investigate the nature of solubility changes in GNPs by performing temperature-dependent sorption measurements on a representative  $\sigma \approx 0.42$  chains/nm<sup>2</sup>  $M_{\rm n} \approx 98$  kDa

<span id="page-4-0"></span>sample (Figure 3b). Fitting to Arrhenius forms provides us with corresponding enthalpies of sorption,  $\Delta H_{\rm S}$  (Figure 3c). Incorporating previously reported data for noble gases,<sup>33</sup> we find  $\Delta H_S$  for neat PMA to be approximately linear with increasing penetrant size. Large penetrants in the GNP display up to a 2× magnitude decrease in the activation energy relative to that in neat PMA (becoming exothermic), whereas CO<sub>2</sub> displays a sorption enthalpy that is  $\sim 2\times$  greater. This is again consistent with the notion that larger penetrants preferentially sorb into the interstitial region—these lower density pockets evidently require a lower enthalpy for dissolution relative to the neat polymer melt. Smaller gases, e.g., CO<sub>2</sub>, which dissolve into more of the grafted layer, evidently require larger  $\Delta H_{\rm S}$ . This is likely because the stretched grafted layer, where chains are stretched in response to the overcrowding due to the relatively high grafted density, are less amenable to dissolving the gas (because this would further stretch the brush, an undesired consequence).

To further rationalize the results for pure polymers, we note that the Brandt model quantifies the free energy of forming "transport holes",  $F_{\rm f}$  Microscopically, this  $F_{\rm f}$  can be computed from the fluctuations in the local chain density  $\langle \delta \rho^2 \rangle$  following  $F_{\rm f} \sim -k_{\rm B}T \ln (\langle \delta \rho^2 \rangle)$ . Based on a Zetsche and Fischer formalism, <sup>34</sup> we obtain  $\langle \delta \rho^2 \rangle$  as

$$\langle \delta \rho^2 \rangle = \frac{3b^3}{8\pi} \frac{S(0)}{R_c^3} \left\{ 1 - \frac{3(1+\widehat{R_c})^2}{2\widehat{R_c}^3} \left[ \frac{\widehat{R_c} - 1}{\widehat{R_c} + 1} + e^{-2\widehat{R_c}} \right] \right\}$$

$$\widehat{R_c} = \frac{R_c}{\varepsilon} / \varepsilon$$

$$\xi^2 = \frac{S(0)}{12}b^2$$

$$S(0) = \rho k_{\rm B} T \kappa_{\rm T}$$

where  $R_{\rm c} \equiv d_{\rm k}$  is the characteristic size of the hole that would be formed,  $\xi$  is the correlation length for density fluctuations, b is the Kuhn monomer size,  $\rho$  is the Kuhn monomer density,  $k_{\rm B}$  is the Boltzmann constant, and  $\kappa_{\rm T}$  is the isothermal compressibility. Values of b=1.47 nm,  $\rho=1.48$  monomer/nm³, and  $\kappa_{\rm T} \approx 5\times 10^{-10}~{\rm Pa}^{-1}$  were adapted from literature data for PMA in the melt at a representative temperature of 308 K.³5-³7 In the thermodynamic limit,  $\langle \delta \rho^2 \rangle \rightarrow S(0)$  and  $F_{\rm f} \sim -k_{\rm B}T$  ln (S(0)).³8,³9 We find that the microscopic energy penalty due to hole formation qualitatively tracks with the macroscopically determined sorption enthalpy in nPMA as a function of penetrant size (Figure 3c).

Based on the definition of permeability, we can also determine the activation energy for diffusivity  $E_{\rm D}$ , based on the activation energies of permeability and solubility:  $E_{\rm P} = \Delta H_{\rm S} + E_{\rm D}$ , Figure 3d. We note that  $E_{\rm D}$  is lower in the GNP system compared to that in the neat melt, indicating that transport is more facile through the grafted system. While we only present three data points for the GNP, and the error bars are large, we draw a linear fit (in line with Freeman's model highlighted earlier) as a guide to the eye.

GNPs as Heterogeneous Media. We focus the remainder of this discussion on a unifying model that rationalizes the penetrant size dependence for activation energies and solubilities. To this end, we first refer the reader to our previous work outlining a multi-body schematic representation for the underlying structure of GNPs, Figure 4a. Within that framework, polymer chains grafted to the particle surface

Figure 4. (a) Schematic representation of the interstitial region in a GNP system, where the red circles signify the impermeable NP cores, the green sections of the polymer chain denote the interpenetrating interactions in the interstitial region, and the orange spheres represent larger penetrants that preferentially solubilize and transport via the interstitial regions. (b) Graphical depiction of the hopping mechanism for large penetrants through GNPs from interstitial region to interstitial region via stretched proximal chain regions in the dry zones.

comprise two regimes: (1) a dry zone of higher polymer stretching closer to the NP surface (referred to hereafter as the proximal region) and (2) the interstitial spaces in the multibody packing which should have a lower monomer density. We therefore propose a model by which larger penetrants are preferentially solubilized in the interstitial region. To transport from one interstitial pocket to another, they must navigate the more highly stretched proximal chain regions, effectively performing short jumps between adjacent pockets via a stretched-chain bridge (Figure 4b). Smaller penetrants, which are present in larger quantities, on the other hand dissolve throughout the entire medium, and hence, they do not perform these hop-like motions. This model also helps explain the more significant enhancements observed in the permeability of larger penetrants in GNPs relative to that in the neat melt. Lower solubility gases only require access to the relatively lower density interstitial regions; this process is less energy-intensive than corresponding sorption in the neat melt. Light gases like He and H2, despite having lower solubilities (assumed to be proportional to their lower  $T_{\rm b}$ ), are likely too small in this case to be size-limited in their transport and will also disperse throughout the entire system.

# CONCLUSIONS

This work sets out to identify and elaborate on the greater transport enhancement that larger penetrants exhibit in highly grafted GNP systems relative to smaller gases. Critically, we have demonstrated an ability to infer mechanisms for microscopic transport phenomena through direct macroscopic experimentation. We determined that the energy barrier for permeability in these systems is lower than in the neat polymer melt and that it plateaus for larger penetrant sizes. This finding has been rationalized through a model where gases larger than a critical size preferentially transport through the interstitial regions via a hopping mechanism, utilizing adjacent dry zones as a bridge from one interstitial pocket to another. The solubility enhancement, and corresponding reduction in solubility enthalpy, of larger gases further supports this transport picture. We now believe to have identified the primary pathway for large  $(d_k^2 > 11 \text{ Å}^2)$  penetrant transport in GNP systems.

We also propose a mechanism for smaller gas transport in these materials. Data shows a slight decrease in small penetrant activation energy  $(E_P)$  relative to the neat, as well as a slight

decrease in their solubility and increase in their sorption enthalpy. Combined, this indicates that enhancements in smaller gas permeability, and the corresponding reduction in the energy barrier, are due to significant enhancements in the penetrant diffusion, consistent with our previous hypotheses[.13](#page-7-0) Structural models and simulations have indicated the importance of a stretched polymer dry zone close to the particle surface for gas transport, and experimental verification and quantification of this effect are currently ongoing.[41](#page-7-0)<sup>−</sup>[43](#page-7-0)

Several outstanding questions regarding the mechanisms for gas transport in polymer-grafted nanoparticle membranes remain. What role does the dry zone play in the transport of smaller penetrants? Do aging effects (i.e., feed pressure, solvent evaporation) influence the energy requirement for transport? If we were to restrict the dry zone, would large penetrant transport be affected? Ultimately, we aim to leverage knowledge of the disparate transport mechanisms of small and large gas penetrants to selectively influence transport of one penetrant class without affecting the other. Perhaps through prescribed preparation protocols, we will be able to enhance selectivity without reducing the desired permeability.

# ■ **MATERIALS AND METHODS**

**NP Synthesis.** No unexpected or unusually high safety hazards were encountered during any point in experimentation. Polymethylacrylate (PMA)-grafted silica was synthesized by surface-initiated reversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer polymerization (SI-RAFT). 2-(Dodecylthiocarbonothioylthio)propanoic acid (DoPAT), the initiator for the RAFT polymerization, was purchased from Boron Molecular, Inc. All chemicals were obtained from either Fisher, Acros, or Alfa Aesar and used as received unless otherwise specified. Spherical silica nanoparticles (14 ± 4 nm diameter) were obtained from Nissan Chemical. 3-Aminopropyldimethylethoxysilane was purchased from Gelest, Inc. and used as received. Methyl acrylate (MA, 99% Acros) was purified by filtration through an activated basic alumina column. Azobisisobutyronitrile (AIBN) was recrystallized from methanol before use.

Molecular weights and dispersities were determined by a gel permeation chromatograph equipped with a Varian 290-LC pump, a Varian 390-LC refractive index detector, and three Styragel columns (HR1, HR3, and HR4, molecular weight range of 100−5000, 500− 30,000, and 5000−500,000 respectively). Tetrahydrofuran (THF) was used as an eluent for gel permeation chromatography (GPC) at 30 °C and a flow rate of 1.0 mL/min. GPC was calibrated with poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) standards obtained from Polymer Laboratories.

*Synthesis of the Activated RAFT Agent.* DoPAT (2.89 mmol), 2 mercaptothiazoline (0.38 g, 3.24 mmol), and (dimethylamino) pyridine (DMAP) (36 mg, 0.25 mmol) were dissolved in dry CH2Cl2. After sparging the solution with nitrogen at 0 °C for 30 min, dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC) (0.668 g, 3.24 mmol) was added to the solution and stirred at room temperature for 5 h. After the reaction, the DCU salt was removed by vacuum filtration. The solvent was removed by rotary evaporation, followed by silica gel column chromatography (1:2 ethyl acetate and hexane to get activated DoPAT as a yellow oil). The DoPAT oil was then dissolved in a minimum amount of THF and precipitated out with methanol and placed in a freezer at −24 °C for 3 h. The precipitant was vacuumfiltered with methanol to yield a yellow solid.

*Functionalization of Silica Nanoparticles.* Silica NPs (20 g, 30 wt % in MEK-ST solution) were added to a round-bottom flask with 40 mL of THF, 80 *μ*L of 3-aminopropyldimethylethoxysilane, and 160 *μ*L of *n*-octyldimethylmethoxysilane. After sparging with nitrogen for 30 min, the solution was refluxed at 75 °C for 5 h. The solution was then cooled to room temperature and precipitated into hexanes. The amine functional silica nanoparticles were recovered by centrifugation at 6000 rpm for 5 min. The dispersion−precipitation process was repeated two more times to remove unreacted aminosilane.

*Synthesis of Activated Nanoparticles.* The functionalized silica nanoparticles were dispersed in 100 mL of THF in a round-bottom flask, and activated DoPAT was added. The amount depended on the final grafting density required on the silica nanoparticles. The roundbottom flask was covered with tin foil to protect from light, and the solution was stirred overnight. After stirring, the solution was precipitated into methanol where it was centrifuged at 6000 rpm for 5 min. The dispersion−precipitation process was repeated until the supernatant was colorless. The activated nanoparticles were placed in a room-temperature vacuum oven to dry overnight.

*PMA-Grafted NP Synthesis.* A typical synthesis of grafted NP is described here: DoPAT-NP (0.2 g, *σ* ≈ 0.42 chains/nm2 ) was dispersed in 12 mL of dimethylformamide (DMF) and 3.25 mL of methyl methacrylate. AIBN dissolved in DMF (0.269 mL, 0.01 M) was added to the solution and transferred into a dried Schlenk flask. The mixture was degassed by three freeze−pump−thaw cycles and backfilled with nitrogen and then placed in an oil bath at 65 °C. The polymer solution was quenched in an ice bath and exposed to air after 5 h. THF (20 mL) was added to the flask, and the solution was poured into hexanes to precipitate PMA-grafted nanoparticles. The PMA-grafted nanoparticles were recovered by centrifugation at 6000 rpm for 5 min. The NPs were then dispersed in 15 mL of THF and precipitated in 40 mL of methanol (right at the cloud point where they precipitate, while free polymer stays in solution). Since we have found that the presence of any free chains adversely affects the separation performance of GNPs, we repeat this dispersion− precipitation process another 4 times.

*Determination of Graft Molecular Weights.* Grafted molecular weights of PMA chains grafted to nanoparticles were obtained by cleaving the chains. The grafted NPs were first dissolved in 3 mL of THF with 60 *μ*L of HF (51% aqueous solution) and left to stir overnight. The solution was then decanted in a Teflon dish, and the solvents were left to fully evaporate. The polymer was then dissolved in THF and filtered to remove the cleaved nanoparticles. The molecular weights, *M*n, and dispersity, *Đ*, of the resulting grafts were then analyzed by GPC.

**Transport Experiments.** *Sample Preparation.* Polymer samples are prepared via solvent-casting (also known as a drop-cast method) where solutions of 20−35 mg/mL in THF were deposited in custom Teflon molds of 0.75″ or 1.5″ diameter. The films were then allowed to dry in air for several hours prior to being vacuum-annealed at 80 °C for up to 3 days. After annealing, film thickness determined from micrometer measurements yielded thicknesses in the 70−150 *μ*m range (to an uncertainty of ≈3−4%). Films are punched out into smaller workable areas and epoxied into a brass disc mold with bilevel support from both Whatman Grade 1 qualitative filter paper (CAT #1001 042) and Whatman supported alumina anodiscs (CAT #6809 6002, 25 mm diam., pore size 0.02 *μ*m). The active membrane sample area was calculated through image analysis of surface photographs via the Fiji distribution of ImageJ[.44,45](#page-7-0)

*Constant-Volume Permeation.* Samples are loaded into a constant-volume variable-pressure apparatus where both the upstream pressure and downstream pressure are monitored via electronic transducers. Vacuum (<20 mTorr) is pulled on both sides of the film for about 1 h, at which time a "pinhole test" is performed. The membrane cell is first isolated from active vacuum, and then the upstream is pressurized to atmospheric pressure using air. This test ensures that there are no obvious holes and deformities in the sample prior to fully degassing the material for the remainder of an initial 14 h period. Prior to running a gas test, a leak-rate is measured (>30 min) to use as a background reference to both ensure the sample has fully degassed and that the experimental gas test has a measurable effect on the downstream pressure increase over the leak (typical leak-rates of 10 mTorr/h are an order of magnitude less than the experimental gas increase of >100 mTorr/h). Ultimate vacuum (30−40 mTorr) is then re-established prior to a gas test. The sample holder is isolated from vacuum, and the upstream is then charged with ∼1.3 bar of a penetrant gas. The pressure increase in the evacuated downstream of

<span id="page-6-0"></span>known volume is then measured as a function of time. The permeability  $P_i$  of penetrant i is then calculated according to

$$P_{i} = \frac{V_{d}l}{pART} \left[ \left( \frac{\mathrm{d}p_{d}}{\mathrm{d}t} \right)_{ss} - \left( \frac{\mathrm{d}p_{d}}{\mathrm{d}t} \right)_{leak} \right]$$

where  $V_d$  is the downstream volume, l is the film thickness, p is the upstream pressure, A is the previously calculated active film area, R is the gas constant, and T is the absolute experimental temperature (see Supporting Information, Figure S1 for additional details). Temperature is controlled for these systems via a water bath with a ThermoFisher heater SC150. A custom open-loop configuration was also established to allow for temperature control down to 15 °C. The experimental time is dependent on temperature and each penetrant tested, ranging from 5 min for He at high temperature to 8 h for CH<sub>4</sub> at low temperature to ensure a steady-state was achieved. Gases were tested in the following order to ensure no potential for plasticization or other light gas material interference: CH4, N2, O2, Ar, CO2, H2, He. Temperature sweeps were conducted from low T (typically  $RT \sim 25$ °C) to high T (50 °C) in 5 °C increments for a single gas before changing penetrants. Between the high T for one gas and the low T for the next, the water bath was exchanged with fresh chilled water to expedite low-temperature equilibration. To ensure proper degassing between measurements, samples were held under vacuum for time equal to that needed to achieve steady-state on the previous test, thus guaranteeing a minimum of 10 times the gas time lag from diffusion.

Pressure-Decay Sorption Experiments. Samples are prepared in the same solvent-cast method previously described, with the only difference being the diameter of the mold ( $\sim$ 4"). The larger area allows for multiple  $2'' \times 0.5''$  strips, each ~100  $\mu$ m in thickness, to be cut out of the same sample using a razor blade. The strips are then stacked using non-adsorbing steel mesh spacers between adjacent sheets to ensure that gas can still penetrate both sides of each strip. The target sample mass (not including the steel) is  $\sim 1$  g of material. Multiple molds may be necessary to produce enough strips such that the total sample mass is sufficient. Samples are then loaded into a pressure-decay sorption device and fully degassed for an 8 h period. An upstream ballast volume is then charged with a known pressure, such that the final pressure at each stage would be approximately equal to the pressure setpoint. Charge pressures included 8, 22, 60, 120, and 200 psia, over the temperature range 30-50 °C. Once the upstream is charged, a valve is opened to the sample chamber, and the instantaneous pressure drop is recorded. While data is recorded up to 2 h for each pressure step, manometer and time resolution do not allow for visualization of Fickian diffusion in the pressure decay; the data appears step-like in nature. The sample is not evacuated between pressure steps; however, vacuum is pulled for another 8 h period between changes in temperatures and gases. Methane was tested before carbon dioxide on each sample to prevent high-pressure CO2 plasticization from impacting the methane results. Differences in the initial and final pressure at each step are used to calculate the amount of gas that was adsorbed, and the corresponding concentration, at a particular charge pressure. Henry's law is used to determine a total effective solubility for the sample (see Supporting Information, Figures S6–S8 for additional details).

#### ASSOCIATED CONTENT

# Supporting Information

The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.macromol.3c00215.

Additional temperature-dependent data for permeability and solubility, representative pressure-decay data, and nPMA reference activation energy (PDF)

#### AUTHOR INFORMATION

#### **Corresponding Author**

Sanat K. Kumar — Department of Chemical Engineering, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027, United States; orcid.org/0000-0002-6690-2221; Email: sk2794@columbia.edu

#### **Authors**

Robert J. Tannenbaum — Department of Chemical Engineering, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027, United States; orcid.org/0000-0003-0103-052X

Natalia Cislo – Department of Chemical Engineering, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027, United States

Eric Ruzicka — Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina 29208, United States; orcid.org/0000-0002-5430-9586

Pablo A. Dean – Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, United States

Zachary P. Smith — Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, United States; orcid.org/0000-0002-9630-5890

Brian C. Benicewicz — Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina 29208, United States; orcid.org/0000-0003-4130-1232

Complete contact information is available at: https://pubs.acs.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.3c00215

## Notes

The authors declare no competing financial interest.

#### ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Financial support for this work was provided by the U.S. Department of Energy under Grants DE-SC0021272 and DE-SC0018135. P.A.D. acknowledges support from the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program (Grant # DGE-2141064).

# REFERENCES

- (1) Sholl, D. S.; Lively, R. P. Seven Chemical Separations to Change the World. *Nat. News* **2016**, *532*, 435–437.
- (2) Korelskiy, D.; Ye, P.; Fouladvand, S.; Karimi, S.; Sjöberg, E.; Hedlund, J. Efficient Ceramic Zeolite Membranes for CO<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub> Separation. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 12500–12506.
- (3) Baker, R. W. Future Directions of Membrane Gas Separation Technology. *Ind. Eng. Chem. Res.* **2002**, *41*, 1393–1411.
- (4) Robeson, L. M. The Upper Bound Revisited. *J. Membr. Sci.* **2008**, 320, 390–400.
- (5) Rowe, B. W.; Robeson, L. M.; Freeman, B. D.; Paul, D. R. Influence of Temperature on the Upper Bound: Theoretical Considerations and Comparison with Experimental Results. *J. Membr. Sci.* **2010**, 360, 58–69.
- (6) Park, H. B.; Kamcev, J.; Robeson, L. M.; Elimelech, M.; Freeman, B. D. Maximizing the Right Stuff: The Trade-off between Membrane Permeability and Selectivity. *Science* **2017**, 356, No. eaab0530.
- (7) Park, H. B.; Jung, C. H.; Lee, Y. M.; Hill, A. J.; Pas, S. J.; Mudie, S. T.; Wagner, E. V.; Freeman, B. D.; Cookson, D. J. Polymers with Cavities Tuned for Fast Selective Transport of Small Molecules and Ions. *Science* **2007**, *318*, 254–258.

- <span id="page-7-0"></span>(8) Budd, P. M.; Elabas, E. S.; Ghanem, B. S.; Makhseed, S.; McKeown, N. B.; Msayib, K. J.; Tattershall, C. E.; Wang, D. [Solution-](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.200306053)Processed, [Organophilic](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.200306053) Membrane Derived from a Polymer of Intrinsic [Microporosity.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.200306053) *Adv. Mater.* 2004, *16*, 456−459.
- (9) Low, Z.-X.; Budd, P. M.; McKeown, N. B.; Patterson, D. A. [Gas](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.7b00629?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) [Permeation](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.7b00629?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Properties, Physical Aging, and Its Mitigation in High Free Volume Glassy [Polymers.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.7b00629?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Chem. Rev.* 2018, *118*, 5871−5911.
- (10) Koros, W. J.; Zhang, C. Materials for [Next-Generation](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4805) Molecularly Selective Synthetic [Membranes.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4805) *Nat. Mater.* 2017, *16*, 289−297.
- (11) Bouma, R. H. B.; Checchetti, A.; Chidichimo, G.; Drioli, E. Permeation through a [Heterogeneous](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0376-7388(96)00303-1) Membrane: The Effect of the [Dispersed](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0376-7388(96)00303-1) Phase. *J. Membr. Sci.* 1997, *128*, 141−149.
- (12) Merkel, T. C.; Freeman, B. D.; Spontak, R. J.; He, Z.; Pinnau, I.; Meakin, P.; Hill, A. J. Ultrapermeable, [Reverse-Selective](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1069580) Nanocomposite [Membranes.](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1069580) *Science* 2002, *296*, 519−522.
- (13) Bilchak, C. R.; Buenning, E.; Asai, M.; Zhang, K.; Durning, C. J.; Kumar, S. K.; Huang, Y.; Benicewicz, B. C.; Gidley, D. W.; Cheng, S.; Sokolov, A. P.; Minelli, M.; Doghieri, F. [Polymer-Grafted](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.7b01428?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) [Nanoparticle](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.7b01428?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Membranes with Controllable Free Volume. *Macromolecules* 2017, *50*, 7111−7120.
- (14) Matteucci, S.; Yampolskii, Y.; Freeman, B. D.; Pinnau, I. Transport of Gases and Vapors in Glassy and Rubbery Polymers. In *Materials Science of Membranes for Gas and Vapor Separation*; Yampolskii, Y.; Pinnau, I.; Freeman, B., Eds.; John Wiley & Sons, Ltd: Chichester, UK, 2006; pp 1−47.
- (15) Jhalaria, M.; Huang, Y.; Ruzicka, E.; Tyagi, M.; Zorn, R.; Zamponi, M.; García Sakai, V.; Benicewicz, B.; Kumar, S. [Activated](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.1c00601?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Transport in Polymer Grafted [Nanoparticle](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.1c00601?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Melts. *Macromolecules* 2021, *54*, 6968−6974.
- (16) Barrer, R. M.; Rideal, E. K. Activated Diffusion in [Membranes.](https://doi.org/10.1039/tf9393500644) *Trans. Faraday Soc.* 1939, *35*, 644.
- (17) Meares, P. *Polymers: structure and bulk properties*; Van Nostrand Reinhold: London, 1965.
- (18) Meares, P. The [Diffusion](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja01642a015?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of Gases Through Polyvinyl Acetate. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 1954, *76*, 3415−3422.
- (19) Barrer, R. M.; Rideal, E. K. [Permeation,](https://doi.org/10.1039/tf9393500628) Diffusion and Solution of Gases in Organic [Polymers.](https://doi.org/10.1039/tf9393500628) *Trans. Faraday Soc.* 1939, *35*, 628.
- (20) Brandt, W. W. The Effect of Polymer Density on the [Diffusion](https://doi.org/10.1002/pol.1959.1204113834) of Ethane in [Polyethylene.](https://doi.org/10.1002/pol.1959.1204113834) *J. Polym. Sci.* 1959, *41*, 403−414.
- (21) Brandt, W. W. Model Calculation of the [Temperature](https://doi.org/10.1021/j150577a012?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) [Dependence](https://doi.org/10.1021/j150577a012?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of Small Molecule Diffusion in High Polymers. *J. Phys. Chem.* 1959, *63*, 1080−1085.
- (22) Brandt, W. W.; Anysas, G. A. [Diffusion](https://doi.org/10.1002/app.1963.070070527) of Gases in [Fluorocarbon](https://doi.org/10.1002/app.1963.070070527) Polymers. *J. Appl. Polym. Sci.* 1963, *7*, 1919−1931.
- (23) Pace, R. J.; Datyner, A. Statistical [Mechanical](https://doi.org/10.1002/pol.1979.180170309) Model for Diffusion of Simple [Penetrants](https://doi.org/10.1002/pol.1979.180170309) in Polymers I. Theory. *J. Polym. Sci., Polym. Phys. Ed.* 1979, *17*, 437−451.
- (24) Pace, R. J.; Datyner, A. Statistical [Mechanical](https://doi.org/10.1002/pol.1979.180170310) Model for Diffusion of Simple Penetrants in Polymers. II. [Applications](https://doi.org/10.1002/pol.1979.180170310)� Nonvinyl [Polymers.](https://doi.org/10.1002/pol.1979.180170310) *J. Polym. Sci., Polym. Phys. Ed.* 1979, *17*, 453−464.
- (25) Van Krevelen, D. W. *Properties of Polymers: Their Correlation with Chemical Structure, Their Numerical Estimation and Prediction from Additive Group Contributions*, 3rd edition; Elsevier: Amsterdam, 2000.
- (26) Freeman, B. D. Basis of [Permeability/Selectivity](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma9814548?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Tradeoff Relations in Polymeric Gas Separation [Membranes.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma9814548?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Macromolecules* 1999, *32*, 375−380.
- (27) Freeman, B. D.; Pinnau, I. Polymeric Materials for Gas Separations. In *Polymer Membranes for Gas and Vapor Separation*; Freeman, B. D.; Pinnau, I., Eds.; American Chemical Society: Washington, DC, 1999; vol *733*, pp 1−27.
- (28) Ghosal, K.; Freeman, B. D. Gas [Separation](https://doi.org/10.1002/pat.1994.220051102) Using Polymer [Membranes:](https://doi.org/10.1002/pat.1994.220051102) An Overview. *Polym. Adv. Technol.* 1994, *5*, 673−697.
- (29) Van Amerongen, G. J. The [Permeability](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.1707667) of Different Rubbers to Gases and Its Relation to [Diffusivity](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.1707667) and Solubility. *J. Appl. Phys.* 1946, *17*, 972−985.

- (30) Gelin, S.; Champagne-Ruel, A.; Mousseau, N. [Enthalpy-](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-17812-2)Entropy [Compensation](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-17812-2) of Atomic Diffusion Originates from Softening of Low [Frequency](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-17812-2) Phonons. *Nat. Commun.* 2020, *11*, 3977.
- (31) Bilchak, C. R.; Jhalaria, M.; Huang, Y.; Abbas, Z.; Midya, J.; Benedetti, F. M.; Parisi, D.; Egger, W.; Dickmann, M.; Minelli, M.; Doghieri, F.; Nikoubashman, A.; Durning, C. J.; Vlassopoulos, D.; Jestin, J.; Smith, Z. P.; Benicewicz, B. C.; Rubinstein, M.; Leibler, L.; Kumar, S. K. Tuning Selectivities in Gas Separation [Membranes](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c07049?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Based on [Polymer-Grafted](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c07049?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Nanoparticles. *ACS Nano* 2020, *14*, 17174−17183.
- (32) Pace, R. J.; Datyner, A. Statistical [Mechanical](https://doi.org/10.1002/pen.760200109) Model of Sorption and Diffusion of Simple [Penetrants](https://doi.org/10.1002/pen.760200109) in Polymers. *Polym. Eng. Sci.* 1980, *20*, 51−58.
- (33) Burgess, W. H.; Hopfenberg, H. B.; Stannett, V. T. [Transport](https://doi.org/10.1080/00222347108212519) of Noble Gases in [Poly\(Methyl](https://doi.org/10.1080/00222347108212519) Acrylate). *J. Macromol. Sci., Part B: Phys.* 1971, *5*, 23−40.
- (34) Shenogin, S.; Kant, R.; Colby, R. H.; Kumar, S. K. [Dynamics](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma070503q?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of Miscible Polymer Blends: [Predicting](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma070503q?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) the Dielectric Response. *Macromolecules* 2007, *40*, 5767−5775.
- (35) Fetters, L. J.; Lohse, D. J.; Colby, R. H. Chain Dimensions and Entanglement Spacings. In *Physical Properties of Polymers Handbook*; Mark, J. E., Ed.; Springer New York: New York, NY, 2007; pp 447− 454.
- (36) Pfefferkorn, D.; Sonntag, S.; Kyeremateng, S. O.; Funke, Z.; Kammer, H.-W.; Kressler, J. Pressure−Volume−[Temperature](https://doi.org/10.1002/polb.22064) Data and Surface Tension of Blends of [Poly\(Ethylene](https://doi.org/10.1002/polb.22064) Oxide) and [Poly\(Methyl](https://doi.org/10.1002/polb.22064) Acrylate) in the Melt. *J. Polym. Sci., Part B: Polym. Phys.* 2010, *48*, 1893−1900.
- (37) Lomba, L.; Giner, B.; Lafuente, C.; Martín, S.; Artigas, H. [Thermophysical](https://doi.org/10.1021/je301333b?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Properties of Three Compounds from the Acrylate [Family.](https://doi.org/10.1021/je301333b?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *J. Chem. Eng. Data* 2013, *58*, 1193−1202.
- (38) Strobl, G. *The Physics of Polymers*; Springer Berlin Heidelberg: Berlin, Heidelberg, 2007.
- (39) Fischer, B.; Abetz, V. Determination of [Thermodynamic](https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2017-1101) and Structural Quantities of Polymers by Scattering [Techniques.](https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2017-1101) *Pure Appl. Chem.* 2018, *90*, 955−968.
- (40) Midya, J.; Rubinstein, M.; Kumar, S. K.; Nikoubashman, A. Structure of [Polymer-Grafted](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c06134?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Nanoparticle Melts. *ACS Nano* 2020, *14*, 15505−15516.
- (41) Chan, S. Y.; Jhalaria, M.; Huang, Y.; Li, R.; Benicewicz, B. C.; Durning, C. J.; Vo, T.; Kumar, S. K. Local [Structure](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c00643?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of Polymer-Grafted [Nanoparticle](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c00643?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Melts. *ACS Nano* 2022, *16*, 10404−10411.
- (42) Bilchak, C. R.; Jhalaria, M.; Adhikari, S.; Midya, J.; Huang, Y.; Abbas, Z.; Nikoubashman, A.; Benicewicz, B. C.; Rubinstein, M.; Kumar, S. K. Understanding Gas Transport in [Polymer-Grafted](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.1c02367?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) [Nanoparticle](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.1c02367?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Assemblies. *Macromolecules* 2022, *55*, 3011−3019.
- (43) Adhikari, S.; Nikoubashman, A.; Leibler, L.; Rubinstein, M.; Midya, J.; Kumar, S. K. Gas Transport in [Interacting](https://doi.org/10.1021/acspolymersau.1c00006?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Planar Brushes. *ACS Polym. Au* 2021, *1*, 39−46.
- (44) Schindelin, J.; Arganda-Carreras, I.; Frise, E.; Kaynig, V.; Longair, M.; Pietzsch, T.; Preibisch, S.; Rueden, C.; Saalfeld, S.; Schmid, B.; Tinevez, J.-Y.; White, D. J.; Hartenstein, V.; Eliceiri, K.; Tomancak, P.; Cardona, A. Fiji: An [Open-Source](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmeth.2019) Platform for [Biological-Image](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmeth.2019) Analysis. *Nat. Methods* 2012, *9*, 676−682.
- (45) Schneider, C. A.; Rasband, W. S.; Eliceiri, K. W. NIH [Image](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmeth.2089) to ImageJ: 25 Years of Image [Analysis.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmeth.2089) *Nat. Methods* 2012, *9*, 671−675.