pubs.acs.org/Macromolecules Article

# Universal Relation for Effective Interaction between Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticles

Nitin K. Hansoge, Agam Gupta, Heather White, Andrea Giuntoli, and Sinan Keten\*

Cite This: Macromolecules 2021, 54, 3052-3064

ACCESS

Metrics & More

Article Recommendations

Supporting Information

ABSTRACT: Understanding the interactions between polymer-grafted nano-particles is imperative to predict the macroscale mechanical properties of the nanocomposites they form. Molecular dynamics simulations capture the interfacial effects of grafting on structure and mobility, but directly linking these features to macroscale constitutive relations for nanocomposites remains challenging. As a step toward addressing this challenge, we develop a computational framework to predict the effective pairwise interparticle interactions between polymer-grafted nanoparticles with different design parameters, that is, polymer chain length, grafting density, and polymer chemistry. Using coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations, we evaluate the potential of mean force between two nanoparticles by varying their radial distance under uniaxial deformations, from which an effective interaction can be derived. We find that the repulsive part of the interaction can be expressed as an exponential repulsion term, whereas the attractive part is best captured using a sigmoidal form. The empirical constants of these equations depend

linearly on the chain length and quadratically on the grafting density. To ensure that the finite rate of deformation does not affect our conclusions, we also take into account the strain rate dependence of the effective interaction, using a Cowper–Symonds model to extrapolate the zero-rate limit of our results. With the development of this interatomic potential between the nanoparticles, we propose a mesoscopic model for nanoparticle assemblies that circumvents the need to explicitly simulate polymer chains, significantly improving the computational efficiency by extending the spatiotemporal scales by 6–7 orders of magnitude.

#### **■ INTRODUCTION**

Matrix-free assemblies of polymer-grafted nanoparticles, called assembled hairy nanoparticles (aHNPs), have significant benefits over traditional polymer nanocomposites, as the increased structural order allows for more accurate tailoring of mechanical properties.<sup>1</sup> Although experimental studies have investigated polymer conformations,<sup>2-5</sup> dynamics,<sup>6-8</sup> glass investigated polymer conformations, <sup>2–5</sup> dynamics, <sup>6–8</sup> glass transition, <sup>9,10</sup> and emergent mechanical properties <sup>11–14</sup> of aHNPs, there are still knowledge gaps in understanding the molecular mechanisms underpinning these properties. While some scaling laws have been established, 15-20 it is unclear how the design parameters such as the molecular weight or the grafting density of the polymer chains affect the interaction between nanoparticles for a given grafted polymer. Atomistic simulations of aHNPs that can reveal these molecular mechanisms are computationally expensive because of spatiotemporal limitations. Multiscale modeling techniques such as coarse-grained molecular dynamics (CG-MD) simulations have been used to evaluate the self-assembly, mechanical properties, and chain conformations in aHNPs. 21-27 The length and time scales accessible through these CG-MD simulations are several tens of nanometers and nanoseconds. While these models are adequate to evaluate the dynamics and structural conformation of polymer chains, the movement and structure of the nanoparticles themselves and

macroscopic properties, such as fracture energy or ballistic penetration energy of thin films, remain out of reach. This necessitates the development of a much coarser model that can access micron-size scales without loss of chemical specificity. One way to achieve this is to develop an effective pair-wise mesoscopic interatomic potential between nanoparticles, eliminating the explicit simulation of the grafted polymer chains.

There are several studies in the literature that have developed effective potentials using integral equation theories, <sup>28–34</sup> the umbrella sampling approach, <sup>35–37</sup> and self-consistent field theory. <sup>38–40</sup> Polymer Reference Interaction Site Model (PRISM) theory has been used to calculate the potential of mean force (PMF) between polymer-grafted nanoparticles in a polymeric matrix. <sup>28–30,41</sup> These studies reveal that at lower grafting densities, the PMF becomes more attractive because of a decrease in wettability of grafted chains.

Received: November 20, 2020 Revised: January 26, 2021 Published: March 19, 2021

<span id="page-1-0"></span>Figure 1. (a) Schematic of the layered polymer grafted to a high aspect ratio nanoparticle assembly. A representative volume element (RVE) is used to analyze the transverse properties of these assemblies. The various polymers and their atomistic and coarse-grained representations are shown on the right. The RVE shown is of a PMMA-grafted nanoparticle system with a chain length of 100 and a grafting density of 0.5 chains/nm<sup>2</sup>. (b) CG-MD simulations are carried out by fixing the bottom plate and pulling/pushing on the top plate with a constant velocity. The schematic is of the same system as in panel a. (c) Representative plots of PMF ( $\psi$ ) with respect to the center of mass (COM) distance between the nanoparticles normalized by their equilibrium distance. Here, normalized means that the equilibrium distance has been subtracted from the distance between the plates. The three plots show the variation with (i) chain length of PMMA-grafted nanoparticle at a constant grafting density of 0.5 chains/nm<sup>2</sup>, (ii) grafting density of PMMA-grafted nanoparticles at a constant chain length of 50, and (iii) polymer chemistry at a chain length of 50 and a grafting density of 0.5 chains/nm<sup>2</sup>.

A similar approach has also been adopted by several other researchers to evaluate the PMF between nanoparticles in a polymeric matrix.<sup>31–34</sup> Monte-Carlo simulations have been used to formulate a logarithmic repulsive force and an exponentially decaying attractive force for star polymers.<sup>42,43</sup> Other methods such as the umbrella sampling approach,<sup>35–37</sup> which is a free energy calculation method that reliably

computes the PMF, have been used to come up with derivations of effective interactions between nanoparticles. These studies have provided timely and significant insights into the nature of these effective interactions, but have commonly utilized generic interatomic potentials, such as Lennard-Jones (LJ) or FENE, to describe the polymer chains. Because the confined behavior of polymers in grafted systems strongly

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 2. (a) Peak of PMF ( $\psi_{max}$ ) increases linearly with chain length, N. (b)  $\psi_{max}$  first increases with grafting density,  $\sigma$ , up to about 0.2–0.4 chains/nm², beyond which the value starts to decrease. The lines in the figure are the best fits obtained from the data, a linear fit for variation with N and a quadratic fit for variation  $\sigma$ . The equilibrium distance between the plates increases linearly with (c) chain length, N, and (d) grafting density,  $\sigma$ . The error bars indicate the variance in values from five different trials.

depends on molecular chemical features such as the side-group size or polarity, there is a critical need to develop a numerical framework for linking the effective interactions between nanoparticles to these molecular design parameters.

In this work, we address this shortcoming by developing a relation that describes the interaction between polymer-grafted nanoparticles with respect to the chemistry of the polymer chains, the chain length, and the grafting density. We simplify the model by investigating polymers grafted between two infinite slabs, which is representative of systems where nanoparticles have a lamellar ordering, or of spherical nanoparticles large enough that the local curvature is negligible. While most computational studies on polymergrafted nanoparticles involve a spherical nanoparticle, <sup>28,29,31,36,44</sup> the advent of high aspect ratio nanoparticles such as cellulose nanocrystals, 45,46 2D nanomaterials or platelets, 47,48 and other lamellar systems renders the understanding of effective interactions between two planar brush surfaces critical. We note that the general framework developed here can be applied to particles of any arbitrary curvature with an appropriate setup of the simulated representative volume. Here, we carry out tensile and compressive simulations of nanoparticles grafted with four common polymers with distinct chemical groups and segmental structures, that is, poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA), polystyrene (PS), polycarbonate (PC), and

polybutadiene (PB). This choice allows for a wide range of properties to be examined in a single study, spanning large ranges of fragility, glass transition temperature, and chemistry. Figure 1a shows a schematic of a high aspect ratio polymergrafted nanoparticle assembly along with the coarse-graining strategy used for each polymer. We take a subsection of the assembly to evaluate the transverse properties at the interface between the nanoparticles. The approach taken here is similar to the use of a surface force apparatus that can measure the adhesion force between a polymer and a substrate. 49,50 We extract the PMF, which is the work required to move the plates, and describe it analytically. The empirical constants of our analytical expression are related to the design parameters; chain length, grafting density, and chemistry. Moreover, we also evaluate the dependence of the PMF on the strain rate and extrapolate the zero-rate limit to our data. These results provide a new interparticle potential for the study of nanoparticle assemblies at the mesoscale for the design parameters investigated without loss of chemistry specificity, and the numerical framework developed can easily be extended to a broader class of systems.

#### METHODS

Our group previously developed CG models of the above-mentioned polymers using an energy renormalization approach that accurately captures the mechanical properties while preserving the dynamics of the full atomistic system. We use harmonic potential for bonds and

tabulated potentials for angles and dihedrals. Nonbonded interactions are described by the LJ potential, the parameters of which are reported in our previous articles. 51-53 The CG-mapping of these polymers is shown in Figure 1a. We use atactic structures for polymers with side-groups (PS and PMMA) and idealize nanoparticle cores as two planar surfaces from which polymers emerge and interdigitate, a model that could be broadly applicable to large, stiff 1D-2D nanoparticles or strongly cohesive assemblies of these particles in a lamellar configuration. The nanoparticle is modeled as a rigid plate with dimensions of 5 nm × 10 nm with each bead placed at a distance of 5 Å. The mass of the bead can be chosen based on the density of nanoparticles to be modeled; in this case, we chose 324 g/mol, which is consistent with the mass of a coarse-grained bead of a cellulose nanocrystal.<sup>21</sup> In order to evaluate the influence of chain length and grafting density, we first created a design of experiments where we systematically vary the polymer chain length from 20 to 100 monomer units while keeping the grafting density constant at 0.5 chains/nm<sup>2</sup>. We then vary the grafting density from 0.08 to 1.14 chains/nm<sup>2</sup> while keeping the chain length constant at 50 monomer units. The grafting density here is defined as the number of polymer chains grafted per unit area of the nanoparticle surface. We note that the chain lengths used in this study are below the physical entanglement length for the polymers as the relaxation of an entangled polymer network is computationally expensive.

All the CG-MD simulations are carried out using Large-scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator (LAMMPS) software.<sup>54</sup> We use periodic boundary conditions along the edges of the slabs (x-y) plane) to mimic infinite plates, whereas the box is nonperiodic in the normal (z) direction where the force is applied (Figure 1b). To generate the structure, a flat plate is created and random beads are chosen to be grafted based on each grafting density. The polymer chain is then grown from the grafted point using a random walk algorithm.<sup>55</sup> The grafted plate is subsequently replicated and inverted to create two parallel grafted plates as shown in Figure 1a. We use the equilibration protocol reported in our previous works. 21,22 In order to remove any overlap between polymer beads, a soft interatomic cosine potential is initially applied to push the polymer beads apart. Afterward, the actual potential is switched on and a brief equilibration is carried out under NVT ensemble for 2 ns. Next, the system is subjected to a high pressure and temperature to anneal and remove any residual stresses, and then cooled down to the room temperature and equilibrated for 2 ns. The second Legendre order parameter (P2)<sup>51</sup> value is checked to be below 0.1 to ensure the chains are well relaxed. The equilibrated system is then subjected to tensile/compressive force using steered molecular dynamics simulations where the bottom plate is fixed and the top plate is pulled/ pushed with a constant velocity of 5 m/s, which is equivalent to a strain rate of around 109 s<sup>-1</sup>. The strain rate used here is much higher than typical experiments, but for a subset of our systems we show how we can easily extrapolate our results to the limit of zero pulling velocity, fitting our PMF results with a Cowper-Symonds model.<sup>56</sup> A schematic of the tensile/compressive test is shown in Figure 1b. The sum of forces in the pulling direction is calculated, multiplied with the displacement and divided by the initial interplate volume (which is the area of the plate multiplied by the equilibrium distance between the plates) to provide the PMF per volume ( $\psi$ ). Each setup is run for five different trials to obtain statistically significant data. Figure 1c shows a representative PMF curve for different polymer-grafted

#### ■ RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

We first look at the individual effect of chain length, N, and grafting density,  $\sigma$ , on the peak of the PMF,  $\psi_{\text{max}}$ . The grafting density,  $\sigma$ , is defined as  $\sigma = f/(w \times l)$  where f is the number of grafts, and w and l are width and length of the plate, respectively. The total work required to completely separate the plates starting from their equilibrium position is defined as  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  which is the plateau of the PMF curve or depth of the energy well. The trends of  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  with respect to the design

parameters, N and  $\sigma$ , are shown in Figure 2. From Figure 2a, we can see that there is a linear increase in  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  with an increase in the chain length.  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  gives an indication of the toughness (area under stress—strain curve) of the system and it is well known that longer chains enhance toughness in pure polymers and polymer-grafted nanoparticle systems. <sup>12,14</sup> Our simulation results support this theory for all different polymer-grafted systems. It is possible that trends may change and there may be saturation at sufficiently high chain lengths; brittle fracture due to chain scission may also occur for strongly interacting chains. Regardless, the range we study is perhaps of greater interest for aHNPs because the physical behavior begins to converge to that of neat polymers as N becomes large.

When the grafting density increases,  $\psi_{max}$  first increases and then starts to decrease (Figure 2b). At lower grafting density, the cohesive interactions between the polymer chains arising from the two nanoparticles are minimal, leading to a low  $\psi_{\text{max}}$ . These interactions increase as  $\sigma$  is increased because of an increase in the number of polymer chains. However, they start decreasing again beyond a certain threshold (around 0.2-0.4 chains/nm<sup>2</sup>) because of a reduction in interdigitation of polymer chains caused by steric hindrance. As the grafting density increases, the close spacing leads to entropically unfavorable conformations of the grafted polymer chains. Experiments have shown that even at high pressures, the concentrated polymer brushes (CPBs) (highly grafted nanoparticles) hardly interpenetrate each other. 4,58 Similar observations were made in our previous study,<sup>21</sup> where we saw a decrease in cohesive interactions with increasing grafting density, which we attributed to fewer monomer segments being in the semidilute polymer brush (SDPB) regime. The grafted polymer chains need to be in the SDPB regime to effectively interact with other polymer chains.<sup>21</sup> Figure 1c shows the PMF curves for the different polymer chemistries. It can be seen that PB, which is rubbery as compared to other polymers at room temperature, has the lowest value of  $\psi_{max}$ whereas tough glassy polymers, PMMA, and PC have high values of  $\psi_{max}$ . The initial curvature of the attractive part of the PMF curve is related to the modulus of the system. PMMA, which has the highest modulus among the four polymers, has the highest curvature, whereas PB has the lowest curvature and thus the lowest modulus. Figure 2c,d shows that the equilibrium distance is linearly dependent on the chain length and grafting density, respectively. In general, as the polymer content increases (with either grafting density or chain length) in the system, the equilibrium distance increases. One can also report the PMF on a per unit area basis by multiplying the PMF per volume with the equilibrium distance (Figure S1), to arrive at a measure similar to fracture surface energy.

Cohesive Energy and Entanglement Analysis. The cohesive interaction energy between the polymer chains  $(\gamma_{pp})$  is a key factor that governs the tensile properties  $(\psi_{max})$  of the composite. Here, we quantify  $\gamma_{pp}$  by calculating the pairwise energy between polymer beads arising from the top and bottom nanoparticle normalized by the total number of polymer beads  $(N_p)$  as described in eq 1.

$$\gamma_{\rm pp} = \frac{1}{N_{\rm t}} \sum_{i,j=1,i \neq j}^{N_{\rm p}} 4\varepsilon \left( \left( \frac{\delta}{r_{ij}} \right)^{12} - \left( \frac{\delta}{r_{ij}} \right)^{6} \right) \qquad r_{ij} < r_{\rm c}$$
(1)

Figure 3. Relationship between the cohesive interaction energy ( $\gamma_{pp}$ ) between chains grafted to different nanoparticles and  $\psi_{max}$  for designs with (a) varying grafting densities at a fixed chain length of 50 and (b) varying chain lengths at a fixed grafting density of 0.5 chains/nm<sup>2</sup>. The line in panel (a) is a guide for the eye, showing a linear relation between  $\gamma_{pp}$  and  $\psi_{max}$ , whereas panel (b) shows that there is no evident correlation between  $\gamma_{pp}$  and  $\psi_{max}$ .

Figure 4. Relation between entanglement per chain  $(\langle Z \rangle)$  and  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  for (a) varying chain lengths and (b) varying grafting densities.  $\langle Z \rangle$  correlates with  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  with increasing chain length; however, there is no evident correlation between  $\langle Z \rangle$  and  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  when varying the grafting density.

where  $\delta$  is the size of the bead,  $\varepsilon$  is the cohesive energy between the beads, and  $r_{ij}$  is the distance between the beads. Varying  $\sigma$  showed a proportional increase in  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  with  $\gamma_{\text{pp}}$  (Figure 3a). However, when N was varied at a fixed  $\sigma$ , we observed no apparent relation between  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  and  $\gamma_{\text{pp}}$ , as shown in Figure 3b.

This warranted further investigation into these systems and we evaluated the geometric entanglement in the system using the Z1 code developed by Martin Kroger. S9,60 The Z1 code returns the primitive path (PP) and the related number and positions of entanglements (kinks) for all chains in the simulation box. From that, we obtain the average value of entanglements per chain,  $\langle Z \rangle$ . This value gives a sense of how intertwined the chains are in the system.  $\langle Z \rangle$  is not necessarily the same as physical entanglement in polymer chains, where the movement of chains changes from sliding to entanglement. Figure 4 shows the relation between  $\langle Z \rangle$  and  $\psi_{\text{max}}$ . We observe that as the entanglement per chain increases with chain length,  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  also increases. This indicates that even though the interaction energies between polymer chains are similar,  $\psi_{\text{max}}$ 

depends on the entanglement in the system. It also ties with the increase in entropic elasticity as the molecular weight of the polymer increases. We also observe the same behavior at low (0.18 chains/nm²) and high (0.96 chains/nm²) grafting densities (Figure S2). Thus, as the chain length increases, the enthalpic contribution ( $\gamma_{\rm pp}$ ) remains the same, but because of the increase in entropic contributions,  $\psi_{\rm max}$  increases. However, when the grafting density changes,  $\langle Z \rangle$  remains similar in value as seen from Figure 4b. This indicates that changing the grafting density affects the enthalpic contribution ( $\gamma_{\rm pp}$ ), whereas the entropic contribution remains the same.

The polymer-grafted surfaces here should be analogous to semicrystalline polymers where polymer chains emerge from adjacent crystal surfaces. There have been several studies that looked at stress—strain curves and stress-transfer mechanisms between crystals with both atomistic and coarse-grained force fields for semicrystalline polymers such as polyethylene. They have evaluated the strain rate effect and carried out analysis of entanglements using the Z1 code, where they show that the bridging entanglements lead to a dramatic increase in

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 5. (a) Fitting the functional form to the PMF data obtained from the CG-MD simulations. The figure shows a representative curve for chain length N=50 and grafting density  $\sigma=0.5$  chains/nm<sup>2</sup> of the PMMA-grafted nanoparticle system. The circle indicates the point where the analytical function shows the highest discrepancy. (b) The distribution of the residual percentage between the data and the fit at the highest discrepancy point for all the curves (5 trials for 9 different chain lengths and 8 different grafting densities for a total of 85 simulations for each chemistry), indicating that on average the error is around 6–10%. The distributions are obtained from a binning of the data points using the ksdensity function in MATLAB with 100 bins.

the stress values at a given strain. 63,64 This observation is similar to what we see in our systems, which strengthens our argument on the importance of entanglements.

In summary, it is evident that increasing the chain length of the polymer increases the entanglements per chain, which in turn increases  $\psi_{\rm max}$ . On the other hand, changing the grafting density affects the cohesive interactions between the polymer chains, which in turn affects  $\psi_{\rm max}$ . As  $\psi_{\rm max}$  is directly correlated with the toughness, it is desirable to have longer chains (closer to a chain length of 100 in this case, which is the maximum of the range we studied) and grafting densities in between 0.2 and 0.4 chains/nm² to maximize the toughness of the nanocomposite.

Analytical Function to Describe the PMF Curve. After understanding the role of chain length and grafting density in  $\psi$ , we proceed to find an analytical equation that can fit all PMF curves and seek to determine a relationship between the physical parameters, N and  $\sigma^*$ , and the empirical parameters of the equation. Here,  $\sigma^* = \frac{f_m^2}{w \times l}$  is the reduced grafting density used as the nondimensional quantity to describe the equation. We note that commonly used pairwise potentials such as Morse, LJ, and even Mie do not fit our data accurately (see Figure S3). While a rigorous machine learning approach may provide a perfect fit to the data, an empirical relation that can capture the behavior can accurately provide more information. Our goal in this work is to build an empirical model with reasonable accuracy with constants that can be linked to design parameters, providing insight into the mechanical properties of the system. Hence, we decided to understand the behavior of the attractive and repulsive portion of the PMF separately to develop an empirical function. For the repulsive portion of the curve, we chose an exponential form shown in eq 2. The exponential repulsion term is widely used in molecular simulations, which goes back to the idea of Pauli exclusion principle.<sup>65</sup> When we picked this model, we drew an analogy that can be made between electron clouds and polymer grafts.

$$\psi(x) = a_r \times e^{-b_r x} + c_r \tag{2}$$

where  $a_r$ ,  $b_r$ , and  $c_r$  are the empirical constants and x is the center of mass (COM) distance between the plates. The parameters  $a_r$  and  $b_r$  depend on N and  $\sigma^*$ , and the parameter  $c_r$ , which is a very small number compared to the first term, shifts the potential to zero at the equilibrium distance. The

attractive functional form was chosen on the basis of having to use a general sigmoidal form that goes from the zero energy state to the detached state smoothly and in a tunable fashion as given by eq 3.

$$\psi_{a}(x) = \frac{a_{a}}{b_{a} + e^{-c_{a}x}} - \frac{a_{a}}{b_{a} + e^{-c_{a}x_{0}}}$$
(3)

The constants  $a_a$  and  $b_a$  control the plateau of the PMF curve ( $\psi_{\rm max}$ ), whereas  $c_a$  controls the curvature of the curve. The constant  $\frac{a_a}{b_a+{\rm e}^{-c_a x_0}}$  is added to shift the curves to zero at equilibrium distance ( $x=x_0$ ). We obtain these empirical constants by fitting our data with the above equation. For each polymer chemistry, chain length, and grafting density, we run five separate trials to get better statistics. Adding the attractive and repulsive forms gives us the final expression for the effective potential

$$\psi(x) = a_{r} \times e^{-b_{r}x} + \frac{a_{a}}{b_{a} + e^{-c_{a}x}} - \frac{a_{a}}{b_{a} + e^{-c_{a}x_{0}}}$$
(4)

We note that  $\frac{a_a}{b_a+e^{-c_ax_0}}+c_r\sim \frac{a_a}{b_a+e^{-c_ax_0}}$  as  $c_r$  is negligible. This

five-parameter equation describes the interaction between nanoparticles in all different designs of aHNPs. Figure 5 shows a representative fit of the function to the data obtained from the simulations along with the residual, which is calculated as the difference between the actual and the fitted value.

The point where the derivative of the potential (given by eq 5) becomes zero is the equilibrium distance between the nanoparticles,  $x_0$ .

$$\psi' = -b_{\rm r} \times a_{\rm r} \times e^{-b_{\rm r}x} + \frac{a_{\rm a} \times c_{\rm a} \times e^{-c_{\rm a}x}}{(b_{\rm a} + e^{-c_{\rm a}x})^2}$$
 (5)

The solution for  $\psi'=0$  cannot be determined analytically as a general expression for all possible values of the empirical constants. However, because the potential consists of two continuous smooth curves, the derivative can be found numerically for each curve once the empirical constants are determined from fitting  $\psi$ . The equilibrium distance obtained from the derivative is compared to the equilibrium distance from the simulations and it is observed that the two values are within 2% of each other. This, along with the goodness of fit measures, ensures that the fitting parameters accurately capture the equilibrium position and the shape of the curves.

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 6. Dependencies of the empirical parameters on (a) chain length and (b) grafting density. The points are the actual values obtained from the fitting the PMF curve to eq 4 and the lines are the fits based on eqs 6–9.

Table 1. Constants of Relation between Repulsive Parameters and N and  $\sigma^*$ 

| polymer | $k_{\rm 1ar}$        | $k_{\rm 2ar}$         | $k_{\rm 3ar}$        | $k_{\rm 4ar}$        | $k_{\rm 1br}$         | $k_{\rm 2br}$          | $k_{\rm 3br}$         |
|---------|----------------------|-----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|------------------------|-----------------------|
| PMMA    | $2.40 \times 10^{8}$ | $1.99 \times 10^{-2}$ | $2.34 \times 10^{7}$ | $1.56 \times 10^{1}$ | $1.06 \times 10^{1}$  | $5.64 \times 10^{-3}$  | $7.97 \times 10^{-2}$ |
| PS      | $3.66 \times 10^{7}$ | $5.72 \times 10^{-3}$ | $6.52 \times 10^6$   | $2.29 \times 10^{1}$ | $8.62 \times 10^{0}$  | $4.86 \times 10^{-3}$  | $8.08 \times 10^{-2}$ |
| PC      | $6.64 \times 10^{2}$ | $1.53 \times 10^{-2}$ | $4.22 \times 10^{2}$ | $2.15 \times 10^{0}$ | $9.65 \times 10^{-1}$ | $1.963 \times 10^{-2}$ | $1.29 \times 10^{-2}$ |
| PB      | $1.38 \times 10^{7}$ | $1.30 \times 10^{-1}$ | $1.72 \times 10^{3}$ | $5.36 \times 10^{0}$ | $1.39 \times 10^{1}$  | $8.76 \times 10^{-3}$  | $1.12 \times 10^{-1}$ |

The functional form of the equation fits the data for all the cases with a total mean square error <1%. In Figure 5a, we also show the residual of the fitted values for an example case. The residual is calculated as the difference between the actual value from the simulation and the fitted value. The highest residual is observed at the tail end of the attractive part of the interaction (circled in Figure 5a) for 100% of the 340 cases studied herein. This is because of the sharp transition to zero interaction observed in the simulation when all the chains from the two plates are separated, a feature not captured by the continuous potential employed. Nevertheless, the residual at the highest discrepancy point is below 15% for most of our simulations (as shown in Figure 5b for all five trials, nine different chain lengths, eight different grafting densities, and four chemistries), and much lower for any other point of the PMF curve. The values of all the residuals are given in the Supporting Information.

Next, we evaluate the dependencies of the empirical constants  $a_r$  and  $b_r$  on the design parameters. The repulsive parameters  $a_r$  and  $b_r$  show a negative correlation with N as seen from the first two panels of Figure 6a. At high enough grafting density, the grafted polymers form a dense corona around the nanoparticle, in the so-called CPB regime (as originally identified for star polymers in the Daoud-Cotton model<sup>20</sup> and discussed recently for polymer-grafted nanoparticles in several articles, 66-68 including our previous work 21,22). The extent of the CPB regime is identified by the grafting density and nanoparticle radius, and long enough chains will extend beyond this regime into the SDPB regime with higher NP-NP interpenetration. As such, the hard-core repulsion observed between NPs for short chains is softened in the case of longer chains (extended in the semidilute regime of the NP), leading to the negative correlation between  $a_r$  and  $b_r$  and N. With respect to  $\sigma^*$ , the value of  $a_r$  increases exponentially because of the increase in steric hindrance induced by closely grafted chains. The polymer chains tethered to different nanoparticles do not have adequate free space to interdigitate, thus increasing the repulsion. The equilibrium distance,  $x_0$ , increases linearly with  $\sigma^*$ , which means the repulsion part of the curve spreads over a greater distance, thus reducing the parameter  $b_{\rm r}$ . The first two panels of Figure 6b summarize this observation. Considering these dependencies, we can form an equation relating  $a_{\rm r}$  and  $b_{\rm r}$  to N and  $\sigma^*$ 

$$a_{\rm r} = k_{\rm 1ar} \times e^{(-k_{\rm 2ar} \times N)} + k_{\rm 3ar} \times e^{(k_{\rm 4ar} \times \sigma^*)}$$
 (6)

$$b_{\rm r} = \frac{k_{\rm 1br}}{N} + \frac{k_{\rm 2br}}{\sigma^*} + k_{\rm 3br} \tag{7}$$

The constants of the above equations are summarized in Table 1.

The attractive parameters have a different dependence on the design parameters. In the sigmoidal curve, the plateau of the curve  $(\psi_{\text{max}})$  is mainly dependent on the ratio  $a_a/b_a$  and the curvature of the sigmoid is mainly dependent on  $c_a$ . A higher value of  $c_a$  implies a more gradual increase in PMF with distance; in other words, the response is softer. We observe that  $a_a/b_a$  versus N is linear, as longer chains require a larger amount of work to be separated. However,  $a_a/b_a$  versus  $\sigma^*$  is quadratic in nature (as a first order approximation), which can be explained with the help of the cohesive interaction energy  $\gamma_{\rm pp}$ . The main correlation between the fit parameters and the cohesive energy is between the ratio  $a_a/b_a$  and  $\gamma_{pp}$ . As both these quantities relate to the toughness or  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  of the systems, there is a direct linear correlation between these two values. For sparsely tethered designs ( $\sigma$  < 0.4 chains/nm<sup>2</sup>),  $\gamma_{pp}$ increases with the number of chains; however, in the high grafting density regime ( $\sigma > 0.4 \text{ chains/nm}^2$ ), the polymer chains are grafted close to each other such that they start

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Table 2. Constants of Relation between Attractive Parameters and N and  $\sigma^*$ 

| polymer | $k_{1aa}$             | $k_{2aa}$             | $k_{3aa}$            | $k_{4\mathrm{aa}}$   | $k_{1ca}$             | $k_{2ca}$             | $k_{3ca}$              | $k_{\rm 4ca}$         |
|---------|-----------------------|-----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|------------------------|-----------------------|
| PMMA    | $1.91 \times 10^{0}$  | $-5.71 \times 10^4$   | $3.93 \times 10^{3}$ | $1.36 \times 10^{2}$ | $1.51 \times 10^{0}$  | $9.09 \times 10^{0}$  | $-2.76 \times 10^{-1}$ | $2.17 \times 10^{-2}$ |
| PS      | $2.81 \times 10^{-1}$ | $-1.69 \times 10^4$   | $5.84 \times 10^{2}$ | $7.08 \times 10^{1}$ | $1.74 \times 10^{0}$  | $7.56 \times 10^{0}$  | $-6.84 \times 10^{-1}$ | $1.48 \times 10^{-2}$ |
| PC      | $1.92 \times 10^{0}$  | $-3.94 \times 10^{1}$ | $5.61 \times 10^{1}$ | $1.28 \times 10^{2}$ | $4.47 \times 10^{-1}$ | $5.09 \times 10^{-5}$ | $-3.76 \times 10^{-3}$ | $3.73 \times 10^{-3}$ |
| PB      | $4.95 \times 10^{-1}$ | $-1.32 \times 10^3$   | $3.86 \times 10^{2}$ | $2.13 \times 10^{1}$ | $8.85 \times 10^{-1}$ | $2.01 \times 10^{-1}$ | $-9.11 \times 10^{-3}$ | $1.29 \times 10^{-2}$ |

Figure 7. (a) Data, the fit from eq 4, the estimation based on eqs 6–9, and the residual for a representative PMMA-grafted nanoparticle system with chain length 50 and grafting density = 0.5 chains/nm<sup>2</sup>. Comparison between the actual and estimated values of (b) equilibrium distance  $x_0$  and (c) peak PMF  $\psi_{\text{max}}$ . These figures clearly indicate that the proposed functional form captures these two key metrics describing the interparticle interaction.

repelling the other chains because of steric hindrance. Because of this, the interdigitation of the chains decreases, which reduces  $\gamma_{\rm pp}$ . The parameter  $c_{\rm a}$  is inversely proportional to N, implying that longer chains provide higher stiffness, thus reducing  $c_{\rm a}$ . The trend of  $c_{\rm a}$  versus  $\sigma^*$  is similar to that of  $a_{\rm a}/b_{\rm a}$  versus  $\sigma^*$ . The last two panels of Figure 6a,b show the dependencies of the attractive parameters on N and  $\sigma^*$ , respectively. Based on these trends, we can get the following equations

$$\frac{a_{\rm a}}{b_{\rm a}} = k_{\rm 1aa} \times N + k_{\rm 2aa} \sigma^{*2} + k_{\rm 3aa} \sigma^{*} + k_{\rm 4aa}$$
 (8)

$$c_{a} = \frac{k_{1ca}}{N} + k_{2ca}\sigma^{*2} + k_{3ca}\sigma^{*} + k_{4ca}$$
(9)

The constants of the above equations are summarized in Table 2. The constant  $b_a$  is equal to 0.025, 0.012, 0.036, and 0.31 for PMMA, PS, PC, and PB, respectively.

In summary, we first fit the PMF curve for each set of the design parameter to obtain the empirical constants. We then relate these empirical constants to the design parameters, N and  $\sigma^*$ . After developing the relations between the design parameters (N and  $\sigma^*$ ) and the empirical constants, we now check the estimation of the PMF curve based on the above equations. Figure 7 shows the data, the fit, and the estimation based on eqs 6-9 along with the residual obtained from the difference between the data and the estimation. As seen from the figure, the estimation from the equation is very close to the actual PMF curve. We also show the comparison between the actual and estimated values of the equilibrium distance,  $x_0$ , and the peak PMF,  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  (Figure 7b,c). The equilibrium distance and the peak PMF are the two key factors that a potential should capture and our functional form can accurately estimate these values within the reasonable range. Representative fits for different chemistries, two different chain lengths, and two grafting densities are shown in Figures S4 and S5.

As discussed above,  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  can be related to the toughness as it is the total work required to pull the plates apart. On the other

hand, using the concept Cauchy–Born approximation, <sup>69</sup> we can convert the PMF curve to a strain energy density function  $\psi(\varepsilon)$ , where  $\varepsilon$  is the strain. Taking the double derivative of  $\psi(\varepsilon)$  (shown in eq 10) at  $\varepsilon = 0$  will provide the modulus of the polymer  $(\varepsilon = (x-x_0)/x_0)$ .

$$\psi''(\varepsilon)_{\varepsilon=0} = a_{\rm r} b_{\rm r}^2 x_0^2 e^{-b_{\rm r} x_0} + a_{\rm a} \left[ \frac{2c_{\rm a}^2 x_0^2 e^{-2c_{\rm a} x_0}}{(b_{\rm a} + e^{-c_{\rm a} x_0})^3} - \frac{c_{\rm a}^2 x_0^2 e^{-c_{\rm a} x_0}}{(b_{\rm a} + e^{-c_{\rm a} x_0})^2} \right]$$
(10)

Assuming uniaxial deformations of a network of these particles, we can generate an Ashby<sup>70</sup> plot of modulus versus toughness for different polymers as shown in Figure 8. As

**Figure 8.** Ashby plot of modulus versus toughness for different polymers.

expected, PMMA and PS have a high modulus, PC has a high toughness, and PB (being a rubbery material as compared to the other polymers) has low toughness and modulus. The few outliers lying on the bottom right (low modulus and toughness for PMMA and PS) correspond to the lowest grafting density, where the number of chains is too low to contribute toward

<span id="page-8-0"></span>the modulus and toughness. The range of modulus and toughness is comparable to the experimental and computational values. <sup>21,71–73</sup> We note that the modulus of PC is slightly on the lower end, which we attribute to the confined conformations of the polymer chains. The slightly higher toughness values (compared to experiments) are reasonable considering the large strains attainable in small systems and we observed similar toughness values in our previous work. <sup>21</sup> We also note that the actual value of modulus and toughness of the nanocomposite will depend on the microstructure and other factors. However, the constants determined herein effectively capture the trend of material properties with the molecular-scale design variables. Alternatively, running mechanical tests on mesoscopic particle networks will have the additional benefit of illustrating nonaffine fracture and failure mechanisms

The trends observed in this work are in line with the macroscale behavior. The peak PMF gives an indication of toughness of the system, and we observe that the peak PMF increases with chain length. This has been experimentally and computationally observed before. 21,72,74 Even with respect to the grafting density, a decrease in toughness at higher grafting densities has also been observed.<sup>21</sup> Regarding the entanglements, an increase in entanglements with a higher chain length is also expected from these systems.<sup>75</sup> The modulus and toughness measurements are in line with the experimental values. 71-73 Based on this, we can safely say that the computed trends and conclusions are in line with expected behavior at the macroscale, but so far experiments have not focused on direct measurements of the PMFs in these cohesive systems without matrices, making a direct quantitative comparison difficult.

**Rate Dependence.** The simulations presented so far are performed at finite pulling velocity, v. One might argue that proper implementation of this model in mesoscale simulations requires consideration of the rate dependence of PMF ( $\psi$ ) (where the strain rate  $\dot{\varepsilon}$  is related to the pulling velocity via  $v=\dot{\varepsilon}x_0$ ). To address this, we show the effects of pulling velocity on our results as well as the extraction of the zero-rate limit to be used at equilibrium. Because of the large computational cost of low pulling velocity simulations, we restrict this discussion to a subset of our systems. The approach proposed, however, can readily be applied to any of the systems studied.

In Figure 9, we show the PMF function for PMMA with  $\sigma^*$ = 0.05 and N = 50 as a function of pulling velocity. Aside from small deviations at very high pulling velocities, the curvature of the PMF is unaffected by the pulling velocity and all the curves collapse once normalized by the peak PMF value,  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  (Figure 9 inset). We quantify this effect in Figure S4, showing that the concavity derived from a second-order Taylor expansion around the minimum of the PMF is constant within a few percent for the low pulling velocities. The change in  $\psi_{\max}$  is then enough to capture the rate dependence of the effective interaction. In Figure 10, we plot  $\psi_{\rm max}$  for PMMA systems at  $\sigma^* = 0.05$  and varying N (panel a), as well as for systems at N = 50 and varying  $\sigma^*$  (panel b) as a function of  $\nu$ , the pulling velocity. From dimensional analysis,  $\psi_{\max}$  is related to the stress of the system multiplied by a volume. In our case, the length scale of the system  $x_0$  is unaffected by the pulling velocity, so we can explain the rate dependence of  $\psi_{max}$  in analogy with flow stress models for viscoelastic materials. We apply here the Cowper-Symonds model,<sup>56</sup> developed to characterize flow stress, but also applicable to other deformation-related pulling

**Figure 9.** PMF as a function of pulling velocity for the system with  $\sigma^* = 0.05$  and N = 50. As expected, the amount of work required to separate or compress the plates is higher at increasing pulling velocities. The inset shows that normalization by the PMF plateau in  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  produces a reasonable collapse of the curves (especially for lower pulling velocities, where the concavity around the equilibrium is constant within a few percent, see Figure S6), indicating that capturing the rate-dependent behavior of  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  is sufficient to describe the entire PMF curve.

velocity effects (like yield stress, elastic modulus, or cumulative strain energy) for a large variety of materials.  $^{76-81}$  We then arrive at the equation for  $\psi_{\rm max}$ 

$$\psi_{\text{max}}(\nu) = \psi_0 \{ 1 + (\nu/\nu_c)^n \} \tag{11}$$

where the critical pulling velocity  $v_c$  signals the onset of non-Newtonian behavior, before which (for  $(v/v_c) \ll 1$ ) the dependence on the pulling velocity is negligible. The power-law exponent n describes the deviation from the Newtonian behavior in the high pulling velocity regime, where  $(v/v_c) \gg 1$ , and  $\psi_0$  is the zero-rate limit of the peak PMF.  $v_c$  and n are typically material-dependent constants. The curves in Figure 10 are fits of eq 11 to our data. To validate the use of  $\psi_0$  to describe the rate dependence of peak PMF, we fit the quadratic equation  $\psi_{\rm max}(v) = 0.5kx^2$  around the minimum  $\kappa_0$  (within 12 Å) and evaluated the difference in the parameter k among the values of  $\kappa$  showed little variation between the pulling velocities, indicating that it is reasonable to use the zero-rate limit of the peak PMF to describe its rate dependence.

We find that  $v_c$  does not have a strong dependence on N and  $\sigma^*$  in our systems, and we can fix it to  $\nu_c = 1 \times 10^{-5}$ , removing one free parameter. This value we find empirically corresponds to strain rates  $\dot{\varepsilon} = v/x_0$  on the order of  $1 \times 10^8 \,\mathrm{s}^{-1}$ , in line with the inverse of the segmental relaxation times we expect for our PMMA model at  $T = 300 \text{ K.}^{82} n$  appears to be independent of  $\sigma^*$ , so it can be fixed to an average value of n = 0.2 (in Figure 10b), which is consistently within the range of n between 0.1 and 0.3 reported in simulation and experimental studies of many different materials. <sup>76–81</sup> We observe a slight decrease of *n* with increasing chain length *N*, from around 0.25 for N = 20to 0.18 for N = 100. Our chains are always below the entanglement regime, where the rate dependence is dominated by the segmental dynamics relaxation, 83 which is not strongly affected by the molecular weight. As such, we would not expect this effect in free polymer chains of varying length, and attribute it here to the fact that dynamics of shorter chains are more strongly affected by their grafted extremities. Regardless, the explanation of the dependence of n on N is beyond the scope of this work, and we allow n to vary (Figure 10a).

<span id="page-9-0"></span>Figure 10. Rate dependence of the PMF plateau  $\psi_{\text{max}}$  for systems with varying N (panel a) or  $\sigma^*$  (panel b). The Cowper–Symonds model<sup>56</sup> correctly fits our data (see eq 11) and we can extract the zero-rate limit  $\psi_0$ . The insets show the corresponding values of  $\psi_0$ , with a linear dependence on N and a bell-shaped dependence on  $\sigma^*$ , similar to what observed at a finite strain-rate in Figure 6b. The bars in the insets represent a 95% confidence interval.

Following this procedure, we can extract the values of  $\psi_0$  for each system (see Figure 10 insets), which can then be used in our analytical formulation for the equilibrium potentials. The error bars in the extrapolated values reported in the insets of Figure 10 are obtained from the covariance matrix of the fit. The extrapolated values reported here should be considered with caution because the assumptions made for the fit might introduce larger errors while extrapolating the curve across several orders of magnitude. While our extrapolation provides a reliable prediction for systems at pulling velocity close to our measured data (see Figure S7 in our Supporting Information), an accurate prediction of the values for an infinitesimal pulling velocity would require a study at lower deformation rates. We also note that  $\psi_0$  has a linear dependence on N and a bellshaped dependence on  $\sigma^*$ , similar to what is observed at finite pulling velocity (Figure 6b). The method outlined here to extrapolate the zero-rate limit of the PMF curve will allow us to use our model in the future for larger, mesoscale simulations both in equilibrium and under deformation.

# CONCLUSIONS

In conclusion, we used our chemistry-specific CG polymeric models to carry out tensile/compressive CG-MD simulations of polymer-grafted nanoparticles. We show that increasing the chain length increases the entanglement per chain, which in turn increases  $\psi_{\text{max}}$ . The grafting density affects the interaction energy between the polymer chains grafted to different nanoparticles. We evaluated the PMF by pulling/pushing the plates from their equilibrium position and found that the repulsive part of the potential can be described using an exponential equation and the attractive part can be described using a sigmoid function. Finally, the PMF curves of all polymer chemistries, chain lengths, and grafting densities follow a universal expression that can be used to describe the interaction between polymer-grafted nanoparticles. The residual analysis revealed that our model can capture most of the PMF curves accurately, barring the tail end of the attractive portion (still less than 15%), which is because of the sudden

transition arising from chains separating out completely. In addition, we show how to extrapolate the quasistatic limit of our results from the rate dependence of the PMF curves. The results presented in this article are obtained in the limit of two interacting particles with size much larger than the scales of the polymer chains, having in mind large high-aspect ratio particles like CNC-grafted nanoparticles or graphitic platelets. 46 Future investigations should examine the validity of the functional form under different loading conditions such as shear, while also ascertaining its applicability to other nanoparticle shapes such as spheres where many-body effects may become significant. This effective potential can be used to simulate large scale aHNP films without having to explicitly model the grafted polymer chains, while still preserving structural design variables and polymer chemistry. Despite limiting this particular study to homopolymers, the same protocol can be applied to more complex architectures with branched polymers, block copolymers, and polydisperse systems, all of which are of interest in novel functional composites. The spatiotemporal extent of the simulations can be increased multifold with the help of this potential. Eliminating the need to explicitly simulate the polymer beads reduces the number of particles in the simulation by more than five orders of magnitude as compared to all atomistic models. With a conservative scaling of  $O(n \log(n))$  for MD simulations, a speedup of 6-7 orders of magnitude can be obtained from these mesoscale models. This study sets the stage to accelerate the design of aHNP thin films by enabling the prediction of macroscale size-dependent properties.

# ASSOCIATED CONTENT

# Supporting Information

The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c02600.

Values of residuals for all the fits (XLSX)

PMF calculated per unit area, correlation between entanglements and peak PMF at different grafting densities, fitting of the data on standard potentials,

<span id="page-10-0"></span>representative curve fits for different polymers, fitting a quadratic curve around the equilibrium distance, and additional data points supporting the extrapolation to equilibrium pulling rate (PDF)

# AUTHOR INFORMATION

#### Corresponding Author

Sinan Keten — Department of Mechanical Engineering,
Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208-3109,
United States; Center for Hierarchical Materials Design and
Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering,
Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208-3109,
United States; orcid.org/0000-0003-2203-1425;
Email: s-keten@northwestern.edu

#### **Authors**

Nitin K. Hansoge — Department of Mechanical Engineering, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208-3109, United States; Center for Hierarchical Materials Design, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208-3109, United States; orcid.org/0000-0001-8361-4099

Agam Gupta – Department of Mechanical Engineering, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208-3109, United States

Heather White — Department of Mechanical Engineering, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208-3109, United States

Andrea Giuntoli — Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208-3109, United States

Complete contact information is available at: https://pubs.acs.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c02600

# Notes

The authors declare no competing financial interest.

#### ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

S.K. and N.K.H. acknowledge support from an ONR Director of Research Early Career Award (PECASE, award #N00014163175). This work is also supported by the Center for Hierarchical Materials Design (CHiMaD) that is funded by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) (award #70NANB19H005). The authors acknowledge support from the Department of Mechanical Engineering at Northwestern University and a supercomputing grant from Northwestern University High Performance Computing Center as well as Department of Defense Supercomputing Resource Center. The authors acknowledge fruitful discussions with Daniel Oh whose suggestions improved our models and interpretations of the PMF functions.

# REFERENCES

- (1) Fernandes, N. J.; Koerner, H.; Giannelis, E. P.; Vaia, R. A. Hairy nanoparticle assemblies as one-component functional polymer nanocomposites: opportunities and challenges. *MRS Commun.* **2013**, 3, 13–29.
- (2) Choi, J.; Hui, C. M.; Schmitt, M.; Pietrasik, J.; Margel, S.; Matyjazsewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R. Effect of polymer-graft modification on the order formation in particle assembly structures. *Langmuir* **2013**, *29*, 6452–6459.
- (3) Yockell-Lelièvre, H.; Desbiens, J.; Ritcey, A. M. Two-Dimensional Self-Organization of Polystyrene-Capped Gold Nanoparticles. *Langmuir* **2007**, 23, 2843–2850.

- (4) Ohno, K.; Morinaga, T.; Takeno, S.; Tsujii, Y.; Fukuda, T. Suspensions of Silica Particles Grafted with Concentrated Polymer Brush: Effects of Graft Chain Length on Brush Layer Thickness and Colloidal Crystallization. *Macromolecules* **2007**, *40*, 9143–9150.
- (5) Cang, Y.; Reuss, A. N.; Lee, J.; Yan, J.; Zhang, J.; Alonso-Redondo, E.; Sainidou, R.; Rembert, P.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R.; Fytas, G. Thermomechanical Properties and Glass Dynamics of Polymer-Tethered Colloidal Particles and Films. *Macromolecules* **2017**, *50*, 8658–8669.
- (6) Kim, S. A.; Mangal, R.; Archer, L. A. Relaxation Dynamics of Nanoparticle-Tethered Polymer Chains. *Macromolecules* **2015**, 48, 6280–6293.
- (7) Wei, Y.; Xu, Y.; Faraone, A.; Hore, M. J. A. Local Structure and Relaxation Dynamics in the Brush of Polymer-Grafted Silica Nanoparticles. *ACS Macro Lett.* **2018**, *7*, 699–704.
- (8) Agarwal, P.; Kim, S. A.; Archer, L. A. Crowded, confined, and frustrated: dynamics of molecules tethered to nanoparticles. *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **2012**, *109*, 258301.
- (9) Dang, A.; Hui, C. M.; Ferebee, R.; Kubiak, J.; Li, T.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R. Thermal Properties of Particle Brush Materials: Effect of Polymer Graft Architecture on the Glass Transition Temperature in Polymer-Grafted Colloidal Systems. *Macromol. Symp.* **2013**, 331–332, 9–16.
- (10) Askar, S.; Li, L.; Torkelson, J. M. Polystyrene-Grafted Silica Nanoparticles: Investigating the Molecular Weight Dependence of Glass Transition and Fragility Behavior. *Macromolecules* **2017**, *50*, 1589–1598.
- (11) Jiao, Y.; Tibbits, A.; Gillman, A.; Hsiao, M.-S.; Buskohl, P.; Drummy, L. F.; Vaia, R. A. Deformation Behavior of Polystyrene-Grafted Nanoparticle Assemblies with Low Grafting Density. *Macromolecules* **2018**, *51*, 7257–7265.
- (12) Choi, J.; Hui, C. M.; Pietrasik, J.; Dong, H.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R. Toughening fragile matter: mechanical properties of particle solids assembled from polymer-grafted hybrid particles synthesized by ATRP. *Soft Matter* **2012**, *8*, 4072.
- (13) Midya, J.; Cang, Y.; Egorov, S. A.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R.; Nikoubashman, A.; Fytas, G. Disentangling the Role of Chain Conformation on the Mechanics of Polymer Tethered Particle Materials. *Nano Lett.* **2019**, *19*, 2715–2722.
- (14) Schmitt, M.; Choi, J.; Min Hui, C.; Chen, B.; Korkmaz, E.; Yan, J.; Margel, S.; Burak Ozdoganlar, O.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R. Processing fragile matter: effect of polymer graft modification on the mechanical properties and processibility of (nano-) particulate solids. *Soft Matter* **2016**, *12*, 3527–3537.
- (15) Chatterjee, D.; Vilgis, T. A. Scaling Laws of Bottle-Brush Polymers in Dilute Solutions. *Macromol. Theory Simul.* **2016**, 25, 518–523
- (16) Chen, G.; Li, H.; Das, S. Scaling Relationships for Spherical Polymer Brushes Revisited. *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2016**, 120, 5272–5277. (17) Zhulina, E. B.; Vilgis, T. A. Scaling Theory of Planar Brushes Formed by Branched Polymers. *Macromolecules* **1995**, 28, 1008–1015.
- (18) Marsh, D. Scaling and Mean-Field Theories Applied to Polymer Brushes. *Biophys. J.* **2004**, *86*, 2630–2633.
- (19) Yang, G.; Kim, K.; Wang, W.; Chen, B.; Mattoussi, H.; Hallinan, D. T. Scaling Laws for Polymer Chains Grafted onto Nanoparticles. *Macromol. Chem. Phys.* **2018**, 219, 1700417.
- (20) Daoud, M.; Cotton, J. P. Star shaped polymers: a model for the conformation and its concentration dependence. *J. Phys.* **1982**, *43*, 531–538.
- (21) Hansoge, N. K.; Huang, T.; Sinko, R.; Xia, W.; Chen, W.; Keten, S. Materials by Design for Stiff and Tough Hairy Nanoparticle Assemblies. *ACS Nano* **2018**, *12*, 7946–7958.
- (22) Hansoge, N. K.; Keten, S. Effect of Polymer Chemistry on Chain Conformations in Hairy Nanoparticle Assemblies. *ACS Macro Lett.* **2019**, *8*, 1209–1215.
- (23) Nguyen, T. D.; Zhang, Z.; Glotzer, S. C. Molecular simulation study of self-assembly of tethered V-shaped nanoparticles. *J. Chem. Phys.* **2008**, *129*, 244903.

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>(24) Akcora, P.; Liu, H.; Kumar, S. K.; Moll, J.; Li, Y.; Benicewicz, B. C.; Schadler, L. S.; Acehan, D.; Panagiotopoulos, A. Z.; Pryamitsyn, V.; Ganesan, V.; Ilavsky, J.; Thiyagarajan, P.; Colby, R. H.; Douglas, J. F[. Anisotropic self-assembly of spherical polymer-grafted nano](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat2404)[particles.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat2404) Nat. Mater. 2009, 8, 354−359.
- (25) Lafitte, T.; Kumar, S. K.; Panagiotopoulos, A. Z. [Self-assembly](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3sm52328d) [of polymer-grafted nanoparticles in thin films.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3sm52328d) Soft Matter 2014, 10, 786−794.
- (26) Hattemer, G. D.; Arya, G[. Viscoelastic Properties of Polymer-](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma502086c)[Grafted Nanoparticle Composites from Molecular Dynamics](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma502086c) [Simulations.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma502086c) Macromolecules 2015, 48, 1240−1255.
- (27) Tang, T.-Y.; Arya, G. [Anisotropic Three-Particle Interactions](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b01936) [between Spherical Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticles in a Polymer](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b01936) [Matrix.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b01936) Macromolecules 2017, 50, 1167−1183.
- (28) Jayaraman, A.; Schweizer, K. S[. Effective Interactions and Self-](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma901631x)[Assembly of Hybrid Polymer Grafted Nanoparticles in a Homopol](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma901631x)[ymer Matrix.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma901631x) Macromolecules 2009, 42, 8423−8434.
- (29) Martin, T. B.; Jayaraman, A. [Using Theory and Simulations To](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b01920) [Calculate Effective Interactions in Polymer Nanocomposites with](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b01920) [Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticles.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b01920) Macromolecules 2016, 49, 9684− 9692.
- (30) Nair, N.; Wentzel, N.; Jayaraman, A[. Effect of bidispersity in](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3590275) [grafted chain length on grafted chain conformations and potential of](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3590275) [mean force between polymer grafted nanoparticles in a homopolymer](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3590275) [matrix.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3590275) J. Chem. Phys. 2011, 134, 194906.
- (31) Doxastakis, M.; Chen, Y.-L.; de Pablo, J. J. [Potential of mean](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.1953575) [force between two nanometer-scale particles in a polymer solution.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.1953575) J. Chem. Phys. 2005, 123, 034901.
- (32) Doxastakis, M.; Chen, Y.-L.; Guzmán, O.; de Pablo, J. J. [Polymer-particle mixtures: depletion and packing effects.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.1704634) J. Chem. Phys. 2004, 120, 9335−9342.
- (33) Zhao, L.; Li, Y.-G.; Zhong, C.; Mi, J[. Structure and effective](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.2187489) [interactions in polymer nanocomposite melts: an integral equation](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.2187489) [theory study.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.2187489) J. Chem. Phys. 2006, 124, 144913.
- (34) Clark, A. J.; McCarty, J.; Guenza, M. G[. Effective potentials for](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4821818) [representing polymers in melts as chains of interacting soft particles.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4821818) J. Chem. Phys. 2013, 139, 124906.
- (35) Pryamtisyn, V.; Ganesan, V.; Panagiotopoulos, A. Z.; Liu, H.; Kumar, S. K. [Modeling the anisotropic self-assembly of spherical](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3267729) [polymer-grafted nanoparticles.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3267729) J. Chem. Phys. 2009, 131, 221102.
- (36) Meng, D.; Kumar, S. K.; Lane, J. M. D.; Grest, G. S[. Effective](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2sm07395a) [interactions between grafted nanoparticles in a polymer matrix.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2sm07395a) Soft Matter 2012, 8, 5002.
- (37) You, W.; Tang, Z.; Chang, C.-e. A. [Potential Mean Force from](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.8b01142) [Umbrella Sampling Simulations: What Can We Learn and What Is](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.8b01142) [Missed?](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.8b01142) J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2019, 15, 2433−2443.
- (38) Trombly, D. M.; Ganesan, V. [Curvature effects upon](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3493330) [interactions of polymer-grafted nanoparticles in chemically identical](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3493330) [polymer matrices.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3493330) J. Chem. Phys. 2010, 133, 154904.
- (39) Egorov, S. A. [Interactions between polymer brushes in solvents](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.2968545) [of variable quality: a density functional theory study.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.2968545) J. Chem. Phys. 2008, 129, 064901.
- (40) Verso, F. L.; Yelash, L.; Egorov, S. A.; Binder, K. [Interactions](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3663964) [between polymer brush-coated spherical nanoparticles: The good](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3663964) [solvent case.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3663964) J. Chem. Phys. 2011, 135, 214902.
- (41) Ganesan, V.; Jayaraman, A. [Theory and simulation studies of](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3sm51864g) [effective interactions, phase behavior and morphology in polymer](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3sm51864g) [nanocomposites.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3sm51864g) Soft Matter 2014, 10, 13−38.
- (42) Jusufi, A.; Watzlawek, M.; Löwen, H. [Effective Interaction](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma981844u) [between Star Polymers.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma981844u) Macromolecules 1999, 32, 4470−4473.
- (43) Likos, C. N.; Löwen, H.; Watzlawek, M.; Abbas, B.; Jucknischke, O.; Allgaier, J.; Richter, D. [Star Polymers Viewed as](https://doi.org/10.1103/physrevlett.80.4450) [Ultrasoft Colloidal Particles.](https://doi.org/10.1103/physrevlett.80.4450) Phys. Rev. Lett. 1998, 80, 4450−4453.
- (44) Smith, G. D.; Bedrov, D. [Dispersing nanoparticles in a polymer](https://doi.org/10.1021/la902329v) [matrix: are long, dense polymer tethers really necessary?](https://doi.org/10.1021/la902329v) Langmuir 2009, 25, 11239−11243.
- (45) George, J.; Sabapathi, S. N[. Cellulose nanocrystals: synthesis,](https://doi.org/10.2147/nsa.s64386) [functional properties, and applications.](https://doi.org/10.2147/nsa.s64386) Nanotechnol., Sci. Appl. 2015, 8, 45−54.

- (46) Moon, R. J.; Martini, A.; Nairn, J.; Simonsen, J.; Youngblood, J. [Cellulose nanomaterials review: structure, properties and nano](https://doi.org/10.1039/c0cs00108b)[composites.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c0cs00108b) Chem. Soc. Rev. 2011, 40, 3941−3994.
- (47) Pakdel, A.; Zhi, C.; Bando, Y.; Golberg, D. [Low-dimensional](https://doi.org/10.1016/s1369-7021(12)70116-5) [boron nitride nanomaterials.](https://doi.org/10.1016/s1369-7021(12)70116-5) Mater. Today 2012, 15, 256−265.
- (48) Dhand, V.; Rhee, K. Y.; Kim, H. J.; Dong, H. J. [A](https://doi.org/10.1155/2013/763953) [Comprehensive Review of Graphene Nanocomposites: Research](https://doi.org/10.1155/2013/763953) [Status and Trends.](https://doi.org/10.1155/2013/763953) J. Nanomater. 2013, 2013, 763953.
- (49) Faghihnejad, A.; Feldman, K. E.; Yu, J.; Tirrell, M. V.; Israelachvili, J. N.; Hawker, C. J.; Kramer, E. J.; Zeng, H. [Adhesion](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201303013) [and Surface Interactions of a Self-Healing Polymer with Multiple](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201303013) [Hydrogen-Bonding Groups.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201303013) Adv. Funct. Mater. 2014, 24, 2322−2333.
- (50) Zeng, H.; Huang, J.; Tian, Y.; Li, L.; Tirrell, M. V.; Israelachvili, J. N. [Adhesion and Detachment Mechanisms between Polymer and](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b00949) [Solid Substrate Surfaces: Using Polystyrene](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b00949)−Mica as a Model System. Macromolecules 2016, 49, 5223−5231.
- (51) Xia, W.; Hansoge, N. K.; Xu, W.-S.; Phelan, F. R., Jr.; Keten, S.; Douglas, J. F. [Energy renormalization for coarse-graining polymers](https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aav4683) [having different segmental structures.](https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aav4683) Sci. Adv. 2019, 5, No. eaav4683.
- (52) Xia, W.; Song, J.; Hansoge, N. K.; Phelan, F. R., Jr.; Keten, S.; Douglas, J. F[. Energy Renormalization for Coarse-Graining the](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcb.8b00321) [Dynamics of a Model Glass-Forming Liquid.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcb.8b00321) J. Phys. Chem. B 2018, 122, 2040−2045.
- (53) Xia, W.; Song, J.; Jeong, C.; Hsu, D. D.; Phelan, F. R., Jr.; Douglas, J. F.; Keten, S. [Energy-Renormalization for Achieving](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.7b01717) [Temperature Transferable Coarse-Graining of Polymer Dynamics.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.7b01717) Macromolecules 2017, 50, 8787.
- (54) Plimpton, S. [Fast Parallel Algorithms for Short-Range](https://doi.org/10.1006/jcph.1995.1039) [Molecular Dynamics.](https://doi.org/10.1006/jcph.1995.1039) J. Comput. Phys. 1995, 117, 1−19.
- (55) Grest, G. S.; Kremer, K. [Molecular dynamics simulation for](https://doi.org/10.1103/physreva.33.3628) [polymers in the presence of a heat bath.](https://doi.org/10.1103/physreva.33.3628) Phys. Rev. A Gen. Phys. 1986, 33, 3628−3631.
- (56) Cowper, G. R.; Symonds, P. S. Strain-Hardening and Strain-Rate Effects in the Impact Loading of Cantilever Beams; Brown University, 1957.
- (57) Martin, J. R.; Johnson, J. F.; Cooper, A. R. [Mechanical](https://doi.org/10.1080/15321797208068169) [Properties of Polymers: The Influence of Molecular Weight and](https://doi.org/10.1080/15321797208068169) [Molecular Weight Distribution.](https://doi.org/10.1080/15321797208068169) J. Macromol. Sci., Part C: Polym. Rev. 2006, 8, 57−199.
- (58) Ohno, K.; Morinaga, T.; Takeno, S.; Tsujii, Y.; Fukuda, T. [Suspensions of Silica Particles Grafted with Concentrated Polymer](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma0521708) [Brush: A New Family of Colloidal Crystals.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma0521708) Macromolecules 2006, 39, 1245−1249.
- (59) Foteinopoulou, K.; Karayiannis, N. C.; Mavrantzas, V. G.; Kröger, M. [Primitive Path Identification and Entanglement Statistics](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma060306b) [in Polymer Melts: Results from Direct Topological Analysis on](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma060306b) [Atomistic Polyethylene Models.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma060306b) Macromolecules 2006, 39, 4207− 4216.
- (60) Kröger, M[. Shortest multiple disconnected path for the analysis](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2005.01.020) [of entanglements in two- and three-dimensional polymeric systems.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2005.01.020) Comput. Phys. Commun. 2005, 168, 209−232.
- (61) Ortiz, C.; Hadziioannou, G. [Entropic elasticity of single](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma981245n) [polymer chains of Poly\(methacrylic acid\) measured by Aromic Force](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma981245n) [Microscopy.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma981245n) Macromolecules 1999, 32, 780−787.
- (62) Olsson, P. A. T.; in 't Veld, P. J.; Andreasson, E.; Bergvall, E.; Persson Jutemar, E.; Petersson, V.; Rutledge, G. C.; Kroon, M. [All](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2018.07.075)[atomic and coarse-grained molecular dynamics investigation of](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2018.07.075) [deformation in semi-crystalline lamellar polyethylene.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2018.07.075) Polymer 2018, 153, 305−316.
- (63) Kim, J. M.; Locker, R.; Rutledge, G. C[. Plastic Deformation of](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma402297a) [Semicrystalline Polyethylene under Extension, Compression, and](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma402297a) [Shear Using Molecular Dynamics Simulation.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma402297a) Macromolecules 2014, 47, 2515−2528.
- (64) Che, J.; Locker, C. R.; Lee, S.; Rutledge, G. C.; Hsiao, B. S.; Tsou, A. H[. Plastic Deformation of Semicrystalline Polyethylene by X](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma4005007)[ray Scattering: Comparison with Atomistic Simulations.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma4005007) Macromolecules 2013, 46, 5279−5289.

- <span id="page-12-0"></span>(65) Smith, F. T[. Atomic Distortion and the Combining Rule for](https://doi.org/10.1103/physreva.5.1708) [Repulsive Potentials.](https://doi.org/10.1103/physreva.5.1708) Phys. Rev. A: At., Mol., Opt. Phys. 1972, 5, 1708− 1713.
- (66) Dukes, D.; Li, Y.; Lewis, S.; Benicewicz, B.; Schadler, L.; Kumar, S. K[. Conformational Transitions of Spherical Polymer](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma901228t) [Brushes: Synthesis, Characterization, and Theory.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma901228t) Macromolecules 2010, 43, 1564−1570.
- (67) Kumar, S. K.; Jouault, N.; Benicewicz, B.; Neely, T. [Nanocomposites with Polymer Grafted Nanoparticles.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma4001385) Macromolecules 2013, 46, 3199−3214.
- (68) Bentz, K. C.; Savin, D. A[. Chain Dispersity Effects on Brush](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.7b00608) [Properties of Surface-Grafted Polycaprolactone-Modified Silica Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.7b00608)[particles: Unique Scaling Behavior in the Concentrated Polymer](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.7b00608) [Brush Regime.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.7b00608) Macromolecules 2017, 50, 5565−5573.
- (69) Arroyo, M.; Belytschko, T. [An atomistic-based finite](https://doi.org/10.1016/s0022-5096(02)00002-9) [deformation membranefor single layer crystalline films.](https://doi.org/10.1016/s0022-5096(02)00002-9) J. Mech. Phys. Solids 2002, 50, 1941−1977.
- (70) Ashby, M. F.; Cebon, D. [Materials selection in mechanical](https://doi.org/10.1051/jp4:1993701) [design.](https://doi.org/10.1051/jp4:1993701) J. Phys. IV 1993, 03, C7-1.
- (71) Robertson, R. E.; Buenker, R. J[. Some Elastic moduli of](https://doi.org/10.1002/pol.1964.100021118) [Bisphenol A Polycarbonate.](https://doi.org/10.1002/pol.1964.100021118) J. Polym. Sci., Part A: Gen. Pap. 1964, 2, 4889−4901.
- (72) Merz, E. J.; Nielsen, L. E.; Buchdahl, R. [Influence of Molecular](https://doi.org/10.1021/ie50498a036) [Weight on the Properties of Polystyrene.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ie50498a036) Ind. Eng. Chem. 1951, 43, 1396−1401.
- (73) Brandrup, J.; Immergut, E. H.; Grulke, E. A. Polymer Handbook; Wiley: New York, 1999.
- (74) Balani, K.; Verma, V.; Agarwal, A.; Narayan, R. [Physical,](https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118950623.app1) [Thermal, And Mechanical Properties Of Polymers.](https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118950623.app1) Biosurfaces 2014, 329−344.
- (75) Sukumaran, S. K.; Grest, G. S.; Kremer, K.; Everaers, R. [Identifying the primitive path mesh in entangled polymer liquids.](https://doi.org/10.1002/polb.20384) J. Polym. Sci., Part B: Polym. Phys. 2005, 43, 917−933.
- (76) Kubo, A.; Albina, J.-M.; Umeno, Y[. Construction of master](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2019.05.045) [yield stress curves for polycarbonate: A coarse-grained molecular](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2019.05.045) [dynamics study.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2019.05.045) Polymer 2019, 177, 84−90.
- (77) Nishida, M.; Yamaguchi, M.; Todo, M.; Takayama, T.; Häggblad, H. Å.; Jonsén, P., Evaluation of dynamic compressive properties of PLA polymer blends using split Hopkinson pressure bar. DYMAT 20099th International Conferences on the Mechanical and Physical Behaviour of Materials under Dynamic Loading, 2009; pp 909− 915.
- (78) Hernandez, C.; Maranon, A.; Ashcroft, I. A.; Casas-Rodriguez, J. P[. A computational determination of the Cowper-Symonds](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apm.2012.10.010) [parameters from a single Taylor test.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apm.2012.10.010) Appl. Math. Model. 2013, 37, 4698−4708.
- (79) Xu, M.-M.; Huang, G.-Y.; Feng, S.-S.; McShane, G. J.; Stronge, W. J[. Static and Dynamic Properties of Semi-Crystalline Polyethylene.](https://doi.org/10.3390/polym8040077) Polymers 2016, 8, 77.
- (80) Snedeker, J. G.; Niederer, P.; Schmidlin, F. R.; Farshad, M.; Demetropoulos, C. K.; Lee, J. B.; Yang, K. H[. Strain-rate dependent](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbiomech.2004.05.036) [material properties of the porcine and human kidney capsule.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbiomech.2004.05.036) J. Biomech. 2005, 38, 1011−1021.
- (81) Shadlou, S.; Ahmadi-Moghadam, B.; Taheri, F. [The effect of](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matdes.2014.03.020) [strain-rate on the tensile and compressive behavior of graphene](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matdes.2014.03.020) [reinforced epoxy/nanocomposites.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matdes.2014.03.020) Mater. Des. 2014, 59, 439−447.
- (82) Hsu, D. D.; Xia, W.; Song, J.; Keten, S. [Glass-Transition and](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsmacrolett.6b00037) [Side-Chain Dynamics in Thin Films: Explaining Dissimilar Free](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsmacrolett.6b00037) [Surface Effects for Polystyrene vs Poly\(methyl methacrylate\).](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsmacrolett.6b00037) ACS Macro Lett. 2016, 5, 481−486.
- (83) Giuntoli, A.; Puosi, F.; Leporini, D.; Starr, F. W.; Douglas, J. F. [Predictive relation for the alpha-relaxation time of a coarse-grained](https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aaz0777) [polymer melt under steady shear.](https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aaz0777) Sci. Adv. 2020, 6, No. eaaz0777.