pubs.acs.org/Macromolecules Article

# Predicting the Effect of Hardener Composition on the Mechanical and Fracture Properties of Epoxy Resins Using Molecular Modeling

Subhadeep Pal, Kerim Dansuk, Andrea Giuntoli, Timothy W. Sirk, and Sinan Keten\*

Cite This: Macromolecules 2023, 56, 4447-4456

**ACCESS** I

III Metrics & More

Article Recommendations

SI Supporting Information

ABSTRACT: Improving the toughness of brittle epoxy while keeping its high strength-to-weight ratio is challenging, as these two properties work against each other. Fracture processes are difficult to ascertain with experiments, as they occur at nanoscopic lengths and time scales and require higher efficiency than what can be attained with atomistic simulations. To overcome this challenge, we utilize a recently developed chemistry specific coarse-grained model to examine two different hardeners, diamine 4,4'-methylene-bis(cyclohexylamine) (PACM) and propylene oxide diamine (Jeffamine), to cure bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (DGEBA) at varying stoichiometries and understand how hardener composition influences the elasticity, yield strength, and fracture toughness of epoxy resins. The results indicate that PACM mainly contributes to the modulus and that long Jeffamine chains increase fracture

toughness by making the epoxy ductile, whereas short Jeffamine chains significantly improve the yield strength. Longer Jeffamines also lead to larger voids and the formation of fibrils that carry a significant amount of stress and contribute to toughness. Interestingly, the Ashby plots reveal that epoxies with intermediate-length Jeffamine chains (D800 and D2000) outperform other systems, as the toughness enhancement from flexible Jeffamine chains and the stiffness due to PACM help to overcome the strength—toughness trade-off. Our modeling framework and findings establish a path toward resin design from predictive multiscale models with no empirical input and reveal new insights into the molecular failure mechanisms of epoxy resins.

### **■ INTRODUCTION**

Epoxy resins are ubiquitously used in applications such as paint and coating materials, adhesives, and matrix constituents for fiber-reinforced composites due to their outstanding thermomechanical properties. However, unmodified epoxy resins typically exhibit brittle failure, which negatively affects their roles in structural use and adhesives. Previous investigations focusing on toughening agents were successful in improving fracture toughness but also resulted in strength reduction. Overcoming this strength—toughness trade-off remains challenging, especially in neat resins.

The brittleness of epoxy originates from its highly cross-linked structure. During crack propagation, energy is dissipated by plastic flow near the crack tip 3,9 and the presence of cross-links hinders this process, thus increasing fracture toughness. This problem has been investigated extensively to date. Early investigations focused on adding functionalized rubber particles to epoxy resins to improve their fracture toughness. The cavitations induced by rubber help to dissipate energy and toughen the epoxy. A uniform distribution of rubber particles sized between 0.1 and 5 mm proves to have the best effect, as the smaller rubber particles in the process zone cavitate and add toughness. Another approach is to add thermoplastics with reactive end groups to create strong

interfacial bonds with epoxy<sup>12</sup> and then tune the concentration such that a co-continuous or phase-inverted microstructure can be formed.<sup>13</sup> Crack bridging and plastic deformation that occurs in the thermoplastic rich phase of these microstructures toughens the composite.<sup>14</sup>

A relatively new approach is to use a mixture of two different hardeners, one ductile and one rigid, to precisely control epoxy's mechanical properties. Sirk et al. <sup>15,16</sup> cured bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (DGEBA) with different stoichiometric ratios of diamine 4,4'-methylenebis(cyclohexylamine) (PACM) and propylene oxide diamine (Jeffamine) and studied its rheology along with various structural properties. Masser et al. <sup>17</sup> observed that the blend has better impact resistance than compositions with a single hardener. This increase was highest (~300%) when the blends exhibit nanometer-sized phase separated domains. <sup>18</sup> Using similar epoxy blends, Eaton et al. <sup>19</sup>

Received: December 23, 2022 Revised: April 6, 2023 Published: June 13, 2023

<span id="page-1-0"></span>Figure 1. (a-c) Monomer structures for (a) DGEBA, (b) PACM, and (c) the Jeffamine series, where x = 3, 6, 13, 33, and 68 are taken as D230, D400, D800, D2000, and D4000, respectively. (d) Schematic of cross-linking reaction. The green and red molecules are epoxide and amine, respectively. The letters below correspond to distinct bead types.

noticed a gain in fracture toughness,  $K_{Ic}$ , for blends with longer Jeffamine chains. Fractography measurements revealed that there exist two distinct crack growth regions consisting of slow and fast propagation. The slow-growth region was observed to have a rough surface due to localized yielding, which presumably hindered crack propagation. The width of the slow-growth region was approximately 10 times larger in DGEBA/PACM/D2000 (D2000 is a Jeffamine chain with molecular weight of 2000 g/mol) compared to DGEBA/ PACM/D400, ultimately leading to larger plastic zones that dissipate more energy. Although these results from mixed hardener epoxies are promising, a better understanding of the effect of Jeffamine mixtures on the plastic deformation near a crack tip is required. The region near the crack tip is generally in a triaxial state of stress, and during the failure of the material, bond scission, craze formation, and void generation are initiated in this region. Additionally, the design space of these systems is more complex than unmodified epoxies and is more difficult to explore with experimental methods. Therefore, a molecular-level description is critical to studying and analyzing these processes.

For these purposes, molecular scale modeling is a powerful tool for acquiring further insight. Atomistic molecular dynamics (MD) simulations are well-suited for material problems with a complex design space. 20,21 Numerous MD based research studies have been performed to estimate the mechanical properties of epoxy resins such as glass transition temperature, 22,23 thermal conductivity, 24,25 adhesive strength, 26,27 elastic modulus and yielding behaviors, 28-31 along with varying cross-link density. However, predicting fracture toughness with MD is challenging as it involves modeling bond scission events with reasonable accuracy. This issue can be addressed with computationally expensive reactive force fields such as ReaxFF, 32,33 but the intensive nature of the calculations makes it difficult to probe a broad compositional design space. A way around this is to employ a bond cutoff model in MD simulations and calibrate the critical bond length by matching the stress-strain curve with ReaxFF<sup>34</sup> results

which provides reasonable precision at much greater computational efficiency. Another challenge is that the crack nucleation during fracture starts at the nanoscale, but the fracture process zone generally spans several length scales<sup>35</sup> which are not necessarily accessible by current MD techniques. To solve this, we draw an analogy with craze-formation in glassy polymers. Brown<sup>36</sup> developed a macroscopic fracture energy from molecular origins. Rottler et al.<sup>35</sup> employed the same analogy to craze formation in a glassy polymer under a plane stress condition at different stages of deformation. Recent studies have used both techniques for accurately predicting fracture energy<sup>37-40</sup> in neat epoxies, phosphorus-functionalized epoxies, epoxy-graphene interfaces, and glass-forming polymers. However, previous MD studies mainly focus on binary epoxy with single resin and hardener mixer. To our knowledge, no molecular studies have been conducted to predict fracture toughness for mixed hardener epoxies. For this purpose, a systematic coarse-graining approach based on the energy renormalization technique was recently developed for DGEBA/Jeffamine/PACM epoxy systems, 41 calibrated with all atomistic (AA) and ReaxFF simulations to match the yield strength, modulus, density, and Debye-Waller factor across different curing degrees. The model is roughly 3 orders of magnitude faster than AA-MD and allows us to quantitatively investigate the fracture toughness of these new blends for the first time in silico.

In the present work, we use the coarse-grained molecular dynamics (CG-MD) simulations to systematically investigate the effect of the stoichiometric ratios of two different hardeners on the fracture properties of epoxies. We choose DGEBA as the resin due to its widespread usage and PACM with Jeffamine diamines as the hardeners. The mole fraction of PACM and Jeffamine along with the molecular weight of Jeffamine chains are varied. The epoxies are uniaxially deformed to obtain mechanical properties, namely moduli, yield strengths, and other parameters, necessary for fracture toughness predictions. The contrasting effects of the relatively stiff PACM amine and the flexible Jeffamine chains are

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Stress—strain curves of epoxies (a) where the Jeffamine length is constant (D400) and PACM percentage is varied and (b) where PACM percentage is constant (40%) and Jeffamine chain length is varied. The percentage indicates the amount of PACM used out of the total curing agent (PACM + Jeffamines).

quantified, and failure mechanisms including bond-breaking dynamics and void formation are elucidated. Finally, a continuum fracture model inspired by Brown<sup>36</sup> is employed for the prediction of the fracture toughness, and findings are compared with recently obtained experimental trends. Ashby plots are generated to compare the strength and toughness of the mixed hardener epoxies, and design strategies for overcoming the trade-offs between these properties are identified.

### METHODS

We used the coarse-grained molecular dynamics (CG-MD) model, developed by Giuntoli et al.41 to represent epoxy and hardener molecules. The model is roughly 3 orders of magnitude faster than atomistic simulations, which greatly reduces the computational cost. The molecular structure and CG mapping of all molecules are given in Figure 1 along with the schematic of the cross-linking reaction. Briefly, DGEBA and PACM are represented with 5 beads (of 3 types due to structural symmetry) and 4 beads (of 2 types due to structural symmetry), respectively. All Jeffamine chain subunits are represented by three bead types. Different molecular weights of it are studied by uniformly varying the number of repeat units in each chain. The bonded interactions constituting the CG force field are calibrated using Iterative Boltzmann Inversion (IBI). For nonbonded parameters, an energy renormalization approach coupled with a Gaussian process metamodel is used to match the atomistic model properties, specifically density  $(\rho)$ , yield strength  $(\sigma_{\nu})$ , elastic modulus (E), and Debye-Waller factor  $(u^2)$ . Details of the model are provided in our prior publication.41

To study the effect of amines, two different metrics are varied: the molar fraction of PACM and Jeffamine curing agents, and the molecular weight of Jeffamine. The %PACM is varied from 0% to 80% of mole fraction of total hardener in 20% increments. 0% PACM indicates that the DGEBA is cross-linked solely by Jeffamine. Five molecular weights of Jeffamine are denoted as D230 (x = 3), D400 (x = 6), D800 (x = 13), D2000 (x = 33), and D4000 (x = 68), where x is the number of repeat units and the number associated with D is the approximate molecular weight (in grams/mol) of the Jeffamine. The stoichiometric ratio is chosen so that all compositions have roughly 30000 beads. A detailed description of each system is given in Table S1. For each system, three different trials with unique cross-link structures are performed to obtain a statistical average on mechanical properties.

The Polymatic software 42 is used to assign cross-linking bonds. Initially, the CG beads are packed into a simulation box, followed by a high temperature and pressure equilibration cycle in which the temperature is kept at 1000 K and pressure is reduced from 100 to 1

atm in three steps. At each step, the system is equilibrated under an isothermal isobaric (NPT) ensemble for 0.4 ns. After equilibration, the root-mean-squared (RMS) distance is computed between amine and epoxide beads, indicated here as N and E respectively. If the RMS falls below the bond formation threshold, taken here as 15 Å, then a set of new interactions (bond, angle, and dihedral) is created between the E and N beads. The epoxide bead type is then changed to  $E_n$ . The amine bead is indicated by  $N_1$  and, subsequently,  $N_2$ , as it can create two connections (see Figure 1d). Energy minimization is performed after each successful cross-link and, at the end of 20 new cross-link bonds are formed, the structure goes through equilibration under an NPT ensemble at 1000 K temperature and 100 atm pressure for 20 ps. Both energy minimization and equilibration are performed to remove residual stress generated due to cross-linking. The procedure continues until there are no eligible epoxide or amine functional groups left or if no new bonds are formed for 20 consecutive equilibration cycles. This procedure generates epoxies which are nearly fully cross-linked (>98%). First- and second-order loops are prevented by disallowing any epoxide molecule from forming two bonds with the same amine. These restrictions are removed after cross-linking reached 50%. The Large-scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator (LAMMPS) is used for all simulations.<sup>45</sup> A small annealing cycle is carried out to remove any remaining residual stress after cross-linking. In four consecutive phases, the temperature and pressure are reduced from 800 K and 100 atm to 300 K and 0 atm, respectively. Each phase consists of an NPT ensemble for 2 ns. A flowchart of all these processes is shown in Figure S1.

The cross-linked epoxies are then subjected to uniaxial tensile deformation simulations at 300 K temperature to extract mechanical properties such as elastic modulus (E), yield strength ( $\sigma_{v}$ ), and ultimate strength ( $\sigma_{max}$ ). During the uniaxial tension, a strain rate of 5  $\times$   $10^8~s^{-1}$  is used to extend the system in the axial direction to 500% engineering strain while holding the perpendicular cross-section constant. At each interval of 5 timesteps (20 fs), the bond lengths of predesignated reactive bonds are checked. Those that exceed a critical bond length ( $bl_{critical}$ ) 1.525 times the equilibrium length) are deleted, including the associated angle and dihedral interactions. The parametric value for  $bl_{critical}$  is obtained by comparing results with the ReaxFF force field 44 which has detailed atomistic bond-breaking definitions. A comparison study is given in the Supporting Information (SI) (see Figure S2). Mechanical properties, such as the elastic modulus (E), yield strength ( $\sigma_v$ ), plateau stress ( $\sigma_v$ ), ultimate strength  $(\sigma_{max})$ , strain at  $\sigma_{max}$   $(\epsilon_{\sigma_{max}})$ , and stretch ratio  $(\lambda)$  are extracted from the simulations. The elastic modulus (E) is obtained from the slope of a linear fit, fitted to the stress-strain data up to  $\epsilon$  =

For yield strength  $(\sigma_y)$ , plateau stress  $(\sigma_p)$ , and the ultimate strength  $(\sigma_{max})$ , the average stress values around the yield point

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 3. (a) Elastic modulus (E), (b) yield strength  $(\sigma_y)$ , (c) ultimate strength  $(\sigma_{max})$ , and (d) strain at ultimate strength  $(\varepsilon_{\sigma_{max}})$  as a function of changing PACM percentage and Jeffamine length. Epoxies with different Jeffamine chains are colored differently. Points represent data from different trials.

(~10% strain), the plateau region (~20%–80% strain), and the maximum stress region are taken, respectively. The strain value where stress is the average of the plateau stress ( $\sigma_p$ ) and the ultimate strength ( $\sigma_{max}$ ) is taken to determine the stretch ratio ( $\lambda$ ). To characterize the voids created during deformation, void diameter, volume, and void size distributions are computed. These are obtained using Voronoi cell decomposition with the Zeo++ package. Additional details are available in the SI. For fracture energy calculation, the elastic constants along the stretching direction ( $C_{11}$ ) and the in-plane shear direction ( $C_{66}$ ) are computed by applying a small uniaxial or shear strain ( $\epsilon$  = 0.1) at every 0.02 strain increment and taking the slope values.

#### RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

Mechanical Properties. We first discuss the stress-strain responses to provide an overall understanding of the effect of PACM and Jeffamine on constitutive behavior. Mechanical testing was carried out for each of the five Jeffamine chains with five %PACM fractions, for a total of 25 compositions. In Figure 2a, selected stress-strain plots are shown for one Jeffamine length (D400) with varying %PACM; similarly, Figure 2b shows the same for a fixed PACM fraction (%PACM = 40%) and varied Jeffamine lengths. All the plots have similar features: a clear yield point  $(\sigma_v)$ , a small strain softening region, a post-yield stress plateau  $(\sigma_p)$ , and a strain hardening regime which ultimately leads to failure of the epoxy. The width (0.2– 0.8 strain) of the plateau region directly affects the fracture toughness as the chain drawing and void formation processes happen in this regime. This will be elaborated on in later sections. The effect of the PACM fraction on the stress-strain curve is apparent but not substantial (see Figure 2a). The yield stress  $(\sigma_{v})^{-}$  and plateau stress  $(\sigma_{p})$  increase slightly with increasing %PACM. Changing the Jeffamine chain length and,

consequently, its fraction has a more profound effect on the stress–strain curves. The epoxies with D230, D400, and D800 fail at  $\epsilon=2$  and 3, but D2000 and D4000 show no failure until  $\epsilon=5$ . The failure strain is larger than the experimental values. This is expected since simulations rely on ideal, defect-free, small-scale specimens that exhibit a lesser degree of strain-localization than macroscale samples. The yield strength  $(\sigma_y)$  and ultimate strength  $(\sigma_{max})$  both go down with increasing Jeffamine chain length. However, the strain to failure and toughness increases, indicating that longer Jeffamine chains make the epoxies more ductile.

Figure 3 shows a more in-depth comparison of mechanical properties. At a given %PACM, the modulus (E) goes down with the longer Jeffamine chain epoxies (see Figure 3a). The E of D230-00 (0% PACM and 100% D230) is 95% more than the E of D4000-00 (0% PACM and 100% D4000). However, the difference is reduced to 50% between D230-80 and D4000-80. It should be noted that the modulus values are expected to be higher than quasi-static experiments because a higher strain rate is employed in MD<sup>49</sup> and also because the cross-section is kept constant during deformation, which induces triaxial loading.<sup>35</sup> Nevertheless, the trend is consistent with experimental results. Specifically, Eaton et al. 19 reported a decrease in E ( $\sim$ 4 GPa and  $\sim$ 3.6 GPa for the D400-PACM and D2000-PACM systems, respectively) at 153 K from dynamic mechanical analysis (DMA) study which is also evident in our simulations (6.65 and 4.95 GPa for D400-40 and D2000-40, respectively). Experimental values at the lowest temperature are chosen to balance the rate effect in the simulation and obtain a rough estimate. Similar trends are observed for the yield strength  $(\sigma_v)$  (Figure 3b). The increase of  $\sigma_v$  from D230-

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 4. (a) Number of amine bond breaking events (%) with strain and the bond type. Jeffamine-DGEBA bonds (dashed) and PACM-DGEBA bonds (dotted) are shown. (b and c) Evolution of mean void diameter (MVD) with strain for (b) D230-40 and (c) D4000−40. The dashed lines show the region where we take the average of MVD to determine the parameter *d* for fracture energy calculation. Error bars show the standard deviation between three different trials.

00 to D230-80 is 2.3%, which changed to a 21.4% gain in the case of D4000-00 and D4000-80 epoxies.

We find two distinct effects as the PACM percentage and Jeffamine chain length are varied. First, both *E* and *σ<sup>y</sup>* increase with increasing PACM content for constant Jeffamine chain length. This is because PACM is a relatively stiff amine, which limits extensibility and increases overall network rigidity. Second, in epoxies with longer Jeffamine segments, the increase in *E* and *σ<sup>y</sup>* is even more pronounced compared to shorter Jeffamine systems. This is due to the fact that the Jeffamine volume fraction considerably increases as we go from D230 to D4000 since the total volume (bead number) of the epoxies is kept constant in our simulations. Replacing these long chains with short PACM segments thus results in an amplified change in the PACM volume fraction relative to short-chain systems.

The ultimate strength (*σmax*) remains roughly constant with %PACM for all Jeffamine chain lengths ([Figure](#page-3-0) 3c), but the strain at *σmax* (*ϵσmax*) increases with longer Jeffamine chain lengths ([Figure](#page-3-0) 3d). As expected, the epoxy networks become more flexible and thus extensible with increasing Jeffamine chain length. For short Jeffamines (D230), adding PACM does not change *ϵσmax*. However, for longer Jeffamines, *ϵσmax* is significantly reduced, which shows the contrasting effect of PACM and Jeffamine.

**Failure Mechanism.** In this section, we examine the nanoscale failure mechanisms. Previous atomistic studies have reported bond scission, void formation, and growth during the deformation of epoxies or similar network-like structures[.37](#page-9-0),[50](#page-9-0)<sup>−</sup>[52](#page-9-0) For a comparative analysis, we consider two epoxy compositions, D230-40 and D4000-40, as representative examples of short and long Jeffamine chains, respectively. D230-40 is expected to be much stiffer than D4000-40 due to its shorter Jeffamine chain lengths. We first investigate the bond breaking as it is implemented in the simulations. Figure 4a shows the percentage of amine bonds broken during uniaxial stretching along with the type of the bond (either Jeffamine-DGEBA or PACM-DGEBA). Bond breaking strictly occurs at the amine connections (*En* − *N*2, refer to [Figure](#page-1-0) 1). For D230-40, the majority of bond scission happens between *ϵ* = 1−2, where the stress reaches a maximum value (see [Figure](#page-2-0) [2](#page-2-0)b), indicating a brittle behavior. However, in D4000-40, the amine bonds break slowly in a step-by-step manner, showing the stark difference in response created by the longer Jeffamine chains. Therefore, increasing the Jeffamine chain length as we go from D230 to D4000 changes the failure mode gradually from brittle to ductile. The brittle failure correlates to higher strength; as a result, D230-PACM or D400-PACM have comparatively high *E* and *σ<sup>y</sup>* but worse *ϵσmax* and fracture energy (*Gc*) (refer to [Figure](#page-3-0) 3 and [Figure](#page-6-0) 7). In both epoxies, Jeffamine-DGEBA bonds break more than PACM-DGEBA, as 60% of the hardener is Jeffamine. At maximum stress, ∼2.9% of the total amine bonds have failed. Example animations of individual bond break events are provided as [Movies](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c02577/suppl_file/ma2c02577_si_002.gif) S1 and [S2](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c02577/suppl_file/ma2c02577_si_003.gif).

The characteristics of voids are measured by computing mean void diameter (MVD) and normalized void volume. Here we take the MVD as the average value of the diameter of the largest sphere that can pass through the deformed epoxy structure. The normalized void volume is simply the summation of void volume divided by epoxy volume at a

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 5. Magnitude of *σxx* in epoxies around ultimate strength: (a) D230-40 (at *ϵ* = 1.5) and (b) D4000-40 (at *ϵ* = 4.0). The color map ranges from 1.2 to 0 GPa. The black region shows the voids due to stretching.

Figure 6. Effect of *ρCL* on (a) elastic modulus (*E*), (b) yield strength (*σy*), and (c) strain averaged mean void diameter (*d*) for epoxies with varying PACM percentage and Jeffamine length. Epoxies with different Jeffamine chains are colored differently, and the gradient change in color shows the PACM percentage. Higher %PACM epoxies are plotted with darker shades. Error bars show the standard deviation between three different trials. (d) Distribution of distance between cross-links (⟨*d*⟩*CL*) for epoxies with different Jeffamine lengths and no PACM. The inset shows the *ρCL* for D2000-00 and D4000-00 in greater detail.

given strain. The evolution of MVD with strain is plotted in [Figure](#page-4-0) 4b, and the normalized void volume is given in the SI (see [Figure](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c02577/suppl_file/ma2c02577_si_001.pdf) S4). The normalized void volume in both epoxies increases monotonically, which suggests that voids are generated at a roughly constant rate. The MVD reaches a constant value in between *ϵ* = 0.5−1.5 for both of the epoxies.

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 7. Fracture energy estimation. (a)  $G_c$  of epoxies at different Jeffamine chain lengths and %PACM (points represent data from different trials). (b)  $K_{Ic}$  comparison with experimental result for D400-PACM and D2000-PACM epoxies (square boxes are simulation results and circles are data from Eaton et al. <sup>19</sup> Dotted and dashed lines are the guide to the eye).

After  $\epsilon=1.5$ , the value of MVD for D230-40 grows rapidly because total failure occurs and the sample splits into two parts. However, this splitting does not happen for D4000-40 and MVD grows continuously. The average value of MVD in the constant region is taken to calculate the strain averaged mean void diameter, d, which is used in the fracture energy calculation (see the dashed region in Figure 4b and c). The evolution of MVD correlated with strain hardening; that is, in the region of strain where MVD is constant, the epoxy shows strain-hardening behavior.

Snapshots of D230-40 and D4000-40 near the ultimate strength point (approximately  $\epsilon = 1.5$  and  $\epsilon = 4.0$ , respectively) are shown in Figure 5. Each bead is colored according to the axial stress  $(\sigma_{xx})$  in the direction of pulling. The  $\sigma_{xx}$  is calculated by initially printing out per atom virial tensor. The axial component in the x direction of it is then considered and divided by the bead's volume to obtain  $\sigma_{xx}$  on each bead. Notably, D4000-40 has larger voids compared to D230-40. D4000-40 also shows fibrils forming along the direction of extension which consist of primarily D4000 molecules that are under higher stress compared to other beads. These fibrils are helping epoxies with longer Jeffamine chains to reach longer strain at the molecular level before complete failure, but, in turn, cause a reduction in strength. For D230-40,  $\sigma_{xx}$  is somewhat more uniformly distributed on all the molecules. This is because the smaller D230 molecules are unable to form fibrils and therefore create a stiffer response.

**Effect of Cross-links.** The results presented thus far show that adding PACM or changing Jeffamine chain length can have a dramatic effect on the failure mechanisms of epoxies, showing a transition from brittle to more ductile behavior at the molecular scale. We hypothesize that the cross-linked polymer network architecture, specifically the cross-link density, is the primary factor governing this phenomenon. To quantify this, we calculate the cross-link density following  $\rho_{\rm CL} = \frac{N_{\rm CL}}{vol}$ , where  $N_{\rm CL}$  is the number of cross-links and vol is the volume of the epoxy system after equilibration. Figure 6 illustrates how the mechanical and structural properties vary across different systems we have studied. Both elastic modulus (E) and yield strength  $(\sigma_y)$  (Figure 6a and b) increase linearly with  $\rho_{CL}$  confirming the hypothesis that cross-link density alone plays a profound role on the mechanical behavior. Higher cross-link density leads to a smaller polymeric chain

between two connections which becomes stretched faster as the material starts to deform. This, in turn, increases its strength. Previous studies<sup>28,53,54</sup> also corroborate our findings, as they found increasing cross-link density enhances various mechanical properties such as elastic modulus, shear modulus, and yield stress. It should be noted that the variation in crosslink density arises in our study because of different Jeffamine chain lengths, whereas the previous studies vary the number of connections in identical systems. However, epoxies with different Jeffamine chains notably have disparate slope values (distinctly in the case of  $\sigma_{\nu}$ ). This indicates that the material properties of the hardeners also have some effect on these. Moreover, we believe the percentage of PACM controls E because a slight change in %PACM leads to a large change in E. The same argument is true for shorter Jeffamine chains and  $\sigma_{v}$ . On the other hand, the strain averaged mean void diameter (d) is solely a geometric parameter and only depends on the length of the polymeric chain between two connections or cross-link points. The epoxies with lower cross-link density have larger Jeffamine chain lengths. As a result, decreasing  $\rho_{CL}$ leads to larger voids in the epoxies (Figure 6c). A relatively higher error is observed for *d*, as each trial has a different crosslinking architecture which leads to completely distinct void shapes and sizes.

We also compute the distance between the cross-links ( $\langle d \rangle_{CL}$ ), which is the average separation between two consecutive cross-links in the epoxy network. The systems with shorter Jeffamine chains, D230, D400, and D800, follow a normal-like distribution (Figure 6d) that has less skew and increasing width as Jeffamine length increases. However,  $\langle d \rangle_{CL}$  in D2000 and D4000 has a resemblance to a bimodal distribution with distance ranging from 10 to 130 Å, which is close to the simulation cell size. These indicate the heterogeneous nature of epoxies with long Jeffamine chains. A similar finding is also reported in the literature  $^{17,18}$  where the higher fracture toughness of D2000/PACM systems was attributed to greater heterogeneity in the systems.

**Fracture Energy Prediction.** Next, we quantify the fracture toughness of these mixed hardener epoxies. For that, we draw an analogy to glassy polymers and employ the fracture model developed by Brown<sup>36</sup> from a continuum scale point of view. Glassy polymers show nanoscale void and fibril formation similar to what we observe in epoxies. Moreover, previous

Figure 8. Ashby plots to compare strength and toughness over varying PACM fraction and Jeffamine length. (a)  $K_{Ic}$  against elastic modulus (E) and (b)  $K_{Ic}$  against yield strength  $(\sigma_{v})$ . Gradient change in color indicates the PACM percentage where higher %PACM is plotted with darker shades.

energy<sup>37–40</sup> in neat epoxies, phosphorus-functionalized epoxies, epoxy–graphene interfaces, and glass-forming polymers. According to this model,  $G_c = 2\pi d \frac{\sigma_{max}^2}{\sigma_p} \Big(1 - \frac{1}{\lambda}\Big) \sqrt{\frac{C_{11}}{C_{66}}}$ . All the parameters, the strain averaged mean void diameter (d), ultimate strength  $(\sigma_{max})$ , plateau stress  $(\sigma_p)$ , and stretch ratio  $(\lambda)$ , were defined in previous sections.  $C_{11}$  and  $C_{66}$  are the elastic constants in the stretching direction and the in-plane shear direction, respectively.

studies have used this analogy for accurately predicting fracture

The effect of longer Jeffamine chain epoxies is evident in the  $G_c$  behavior (Figure 7a). The fracture energy of D4000-00 is almost 9.5 times that of D230-00. The fibril formation due to D4000 facilitates larger deformation and thus contributes to this high  $G_c$  value. This gain quickly diminishes as stiffer PACM is added. The response is somewhat similar to those of E and  $\sigma_{vv}$  where shorter Jeffamine epoxies show less change of value compared to longer Jeffamine systems. The  $G_c$  value of D230-00 epoxy is compared against the experimental result.<sup>55</sup> Our simulation result was within 20% of the experimental value ( $G_c^{sim} = 146.08 \text{ J m}^{-2} \text{ and } G_c^{exp} = 187.01 \text{ J m}^{-2}$ ), which corroborates the performance of our model. The  $G_c$  values are converted to  $\hat{K_{Ic}}$  by using  $K_{Ic} = \sqrt{G_c E}$  to compare with experimental results 19 and experimental data received based on personal communications with authors. Experimental fracture toughness data at low temperatures (at 153 K) are taken to diminish the effect of the high strain rate employed in MD. Epoxies with D400 and high PACM content (50%-80%) show a close match with our simulation results (Figure 7b). Other low PACM data points illustrate a slight increase in fracture energy, although this appears subdued compared to experiments. The D2000 systems with moderate to high PACM have the highest deviation from simulation results. A number of factors may be causing these discrepancies. The absence of defects, high strain rate, and variability in both experimental measures and simulation variables such as d are potential contributors to these differences. Additionally, chain length polydispersity in experiments might also contribute to these differences. Nevertheless, considering the difference in length scales and that MD models are coarse-grained without empirical inputs, it is remarkable that our model is able to capture the experimental trends.

These results clearly indicate that longer Jeffamines can toughen epoxies at high strain rates and increase their fracture

energy but with compromising their strength. Conversely, PACM increases the strength and stiffness, making the choice of hardeners a multidimensional optimization problem where both toughness and strength are necessary. Although a full optimization that accounts for nonadditive effects is outside the scope of this study, useful relations can be found from Ashby plots as shown in Figure 8. Both E and  $\sigma_y$  are chosen as the measure of strength. Among all, epoxies with D2000 and D800 are showing better performance. The epoxies with D800 are always above the mean curve with better toughness performance (Figure 8b). Additionally, D800-PACM and D2000-PACM systems have broad reach along the mean curve (Figure 8a), indicating these systems can be tailored for a given strength requirement by increasing %PACM while maintaining relatively high toughness.

### CONCLUSION

In this paper, we successfully implemented the chemistry specific CG-MD based framework and discussed the effect of using a mixed hardener on the various mechanical and structural properties of epoxy resins. The fracture energy is predicted from molecular simulations employing continuum scale theory. Moreover, we are able to find an optimal Jeffamine chain, D800, which has not been studied before or used commercially and which performs better than others.

Our findings illustrate the competing effect of two hardeners, PACM and Jeffamine. The model predicts higher elastic modulus and yield strength for epoxies with higher PACM percentages. On the other hand, Jeffamine contributes to extensibility, especially longer Jeffamine chains. This leads to larger failure strain and thus higher fracture energy. Short Jeffamine chains promote higher yield strength arising from the uniformity of the networks. We dig deeper to understand the failure mechanisms from the molecular viewpoint. Bond scission and void formations were prominent in every epoxy composition. We find that the majority of the scissions happened during strain hardening in the system. Epoxies with longer Jeffamine chain show an increase in void size and number of voids at post-yield. We also discover that the change in mechanical properties depends on material properties as well as the network architecture of the cross-links. High fracture toughness is observed for longer Jeffamine chain epoxies. The computed  $K_{Ic}$  value exhibited good agreement with recent experimental results, thus demonstrating the predictive power of the framework. We presented a

<span id="page-8-0"></span>comparison between strength and toughness using Ashby plots which reveals that the epoxies with D800 and D2000 perform better than others. This can be further extended to study disulfide based epoxy resins and hardeners.

# ■ **ASSOCIATED CONTENT**

### \***sı Supporting Information**

The Supporting Information is available free of charge at [https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c02577](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c02577?goto=supporting-info).

> Compositions of epoxy samples investigated; Flowchart of the various equilibrations and cross-link steps; Density of epoxies with different stoichiometric ratios; Comparison of CG-MD and ReaxFF results; Evolution of MVD and normalized void volume; Evolution of MVD with varying Jeffamine chains; Calculation of (*C* /*C* ) <sup>11</sup> <sup>66</sup> ; Effect of entanglement; Effect of strain rate [\(PDF](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c02577/suppl_file/ma2c02577_si_001.pdf))

Movie showing D4000-DGEBA break ([GIF\)](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c02577/suppl_file/ma2c02577_si_002.gif) Movie showing PACM-DGEBA break ([GIF](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/suppl/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c02577/suppl_file/ma2c02577_si_003.gif))

# ■ **AUTHOR INFORMATION**

### **Corresponding Author**

Sinan Keten − *Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, United States; Department of Mechanical Engineering, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, United States;* [orcid.org/0000-0003-2203-1425](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2203-1425); Email: [s-keten@northwestern.edu](mailto:s-keten@northwestern.edu)

### **Authors**

Subhadeep Pal − *Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, United States;* [orcid.org/0000-0002-0532-9791](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0532-9791)

Kerim Dansuk − *Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, United States*

Andrea Giuntoli − *Zernike Institute for Advanced Materials, University of Groningen, 9747 AG Groningen, The Netherlands*

Timothy W. Sirk − *U.S. DEVCOM Army Research Laboratory, Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland 21005, United States;* [orcid.org/0000-0002-1105-4931](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1105-4931)

Complete contact information is available at: [https://pubs.acs.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c02577](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c02577?ref=pdf)

### **Notes**

The authors declare no competing financial interest.

# ■ **ACKNOWLEDGMENTS**

This project was sponsored by an Army Research Laboratory cooperative agreement (W911NF2120085). A supercomputing grant from Quest HPC System at Northwestern University is also acknowledged.

- **REFERENCES** (1) May, C. *Epoxy Resins: Chemistry and Technology*, 2nd ed.; Routledge, 2018.
- (2) Jin, F.-L.; Li, X.; Park, S.-J. Synthesis and [application](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jiec.2015.03.026) of epoxy resins: A [review.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jiec.2015.03.026) *Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry* 2015, *29*, 1−11.

- (3) Fiedler, B.; Hojo, M.; Ochiai, S.; Schulte, K.; Ando, M. [Failure](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0266-3538(01)00057-4) [behavior](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0266-3538(01)00057-4) of an epoxy matrix under different kinds of static loading. *Compos. Sci. Technol.* 2001, *61*, 1615−1624.
- (4) Yang, G.; Fu, S.-Y.; Yang, J.-P. [Preparation](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2006.11.031) and mechanical [properties](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2006.11.031) of modified epoxy resins with flexible diamines. *Polymer* 2007, *48*, 302−310.
- (5) Jansen, B. J. P.; Rastogi, S.; Meijer, H. E. H.; Lemstra, P. J. [Rubber-Modified](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma981407f?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Glassy Amorphous Polymers Prepared via Chemically Induced Phase Separation. 4. [Comparison](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma981407f?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of Properties of Semiand Full-IPNs, and Copolymers of [AcrylateAliphatic](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma981407f?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Epoxy Systems. *Macromolecules* 1999, *32*, 6290−6297.
- (6) Parzuchowski, P. G.; Kiźlinska, ́ M.; Rokicki, G. New [hyper](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2007.02.021)branched polyether [containing](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2007.02.021) cyclic carbonate groups as a [toughening](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2007.02.021) agent for epoxy resin. *Polymer* 2007, *48*, 1857−1865.
- (7) Levita, G.; De Petris, S.; Marchetti, A.; Lazzeri, A. [Crosslink](https://doi.org/10.1007/BF01130180) density and fracture [toughness](https://doi.org/10.1007/BF01130180) of epoxy resins. *J. Mater. Sci.* 1991, *26*, 2348−2352.
- (8) Baljon, A. R. C.; Robbins, M. O. Energy [dissipation](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.271.5248.482) during rupture of [adhesive](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.271.5248.482) bonds. *Science* 1996, *271*, 482.
- (9) Lai, J.; Van der Giessen, E. A [numerical](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0167-6636(97)00006-9) study of crack-tip plasticity in glassy [polymers.](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0167-6636(97)00006-9) *Mech. Mater.* 1997, *25*, 183−197.
- (10) Ratna, D.; Banthia, A. K. Rubber [toughened](https://doi.org/10.1007/BF03218989) epoxy. *Macromol. Res.* 2004, *12*, 11−21.
- (11) Sultan, J. N.; McGarry, F. J. Effect of rubber [particle](https://doi.org/10.1002/pen.760130105) size on [deformation](https://doi.org/10.1002/pen.760130105) mechanisms in glassy epoxy. *Polym. Eng. Sci.* 1973, *13*, 29−34.
- (12) Hodgkin, J. H.; Simon, G. P.; Varley, R. J. [Thermoplastic](https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1099-1581(199801)9:1<3::AID-PAT727>3.0.CO;2-I) [toughening](https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1099-1581(199801)9:1<3::AID-PAT727>3.0.CO;2-I) of epoxy resins: a critical review. *Polym. Adv. Technol.* 1998, *9*, 3−10.
- (13) Kinloch, A. J.; Yuen, M. L.; Jenkins, S. D. [Thermoplastic](https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00357349)[toughened](https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00357349) epoxy polymers. *J. Mater. Sci.* 1994, *29*, 3781−3790.
- (14) Cardwell, B. J.; Yee, A. F. [Toughening](https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1004427123388) of epoxies through [thermoplastic](https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1004427123388) crack bridging. *J. Mater. Sci.* 1998, *33*, 5473−5484.
- (15) Sirk, T. W.; Karim, M.; Khare, K. S.; Lenhart, J. L.; Andzelm, J. W.; Khare, R. Bi-modal polymer networks: [Composition-dependent](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2014.12.057) trends in thermal, [volumetric](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2014.12.057) and structural properties from molecular dynamics [simulation.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2014.12.057) *Polymer* 2015, *58*, 199−208.
- (16) Sirk, T. W.; Karim, M.; Lenhart, J. L.; Andzelm, J. W.; Khare, R. Bi-modal polymer networks: [Viscoelasticity](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2016.03.024) and mechanics from molecular dynamics [simulation.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2016.03.024) *Polymer* 2016, *90*, 178−186.
- (17) Masser, K. A.; Knorr, D. B.; Yu, J. H.; Hindenlang, M. D.; Lenhart, J. L. Dynamic [heterogeneity](https://doi.org/10.1002/app.43566) in epoxy networks for protection [applications.](https://doi.org/10.1002/app.43566) *J. Appl. Polym. Sci.* 2016, *133*, app.43566.
- (18) Masser, K. A.; Knorr, D. B.; Hindenlang, M. D.; Yu, J. H.; Richardson, A. D.; Strawhecker, K. E.; Beyer, F. L.; Lenhart, J. L. Relating structure and chain dynamics to ballistic [performance](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2014.12.027) in transparent epoxy networks exhibiting nanometer scale [heterogeneity.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2014.12.027) *Polymer* 2015, *58*, 96−106.
- (19) Eaton, M. D.; Brinson, L. C.; Shull, K. R. [Temperature](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2021.123560) [dependent](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2021.123560) fracture behavior in model epoxy networks with nanoscale [heterogeneity.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2021.123560) *Polymer* 2021, *221*, 123560.
- (20) Hansoge, N. K.; Gupta, A.; White, H.; Giuntoli, A.; Keten, S. Universal Relation for Effective Interaction between [Polymer-Grafted](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c02600?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) [Nanoparticles.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.0c02600?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Macromolecules* 2021, *54*, 3052−3064.
- (21) Hansoge, N. K.; Keten, S. Effect of Polymer [Chemistry](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsmacrolett.9b00526?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) on Chain [Conformations](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsmacrolett.9b00526?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) in Hairy Nanoparticle Assemblies. *ACS Macro Lett.* 2019, *8*, 1209−1215.
- (22) Li, C.; Strachan, A. Molecular simulations of [crosslinking](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2010.10.033) process of [thermosetting](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2010.10.033) polymers. *Polymer* 2010, *51*, 6058−6070.
- (23) Varshney, V.; Patnaik, S. S.; Roy, A. K.; Farmer, B. L. [A](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma801153e?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Molecular Dynamics Study of Epoxy-Based Networks: [Cross-Linking](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma801153e?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Procedure and Prediction of Molecular and Material [Properties.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma801153e?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Macromolecules* 2008, *41*, 6837−6842.
- (24) Fan, H. B.; Yuen, M. M. Material properties of the [cross-linked](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2007.02.007) epoxy resin compound predicted by molecular dynamics [simulation.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2007.02.007) *Polymer* 2007, *48*, 2174−2178.
- (25) Varshney, V.; Patnaik, S. S.; Roy, A. K.; Farmer, B. L. [Heat](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2009.05.027) transport in epoxy networks: A [molecular](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2009.05.027) dynamics study. *Polymer* 2009, *50*, 3378−3385.

- <span id="page-9-0"></span>(26) Yarovsky, I.; Evans, E. Computer [simulation](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0032-3861(01)00634-6) of structure and properties of [crosslinked](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0032-3861(01)00634-6) polymers: application to epoxy resinsq. *Polymer* 2002, *43*, 963−969.
- (27) Tam, L.-h.; Chow, C. L.; Lau, D. Moisture effect on [interfacial](https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6528/aa9537) integrity of [epoxy-bonded](https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6528/aa9537) system: a hierarchical approach. *Nanotechnology* 2018, *29*, 024001.
- (28) Li, C.; Strachan, A. Molecular dynamics [predictions](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2011.04.041) of thermal and mechanical properties of thermoset polymer [EPON862/DETDA.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2011.04.041) *Polymer* 2011, *52*, 2920−2928.
- (29) Li, C.; Strachan, A. [Evolution](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2015.08.037) of network topology of [bifunctional](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2015.08.037) epoxy thermosets during cure and its relationship to [thermo-mechanical](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2015.08.037) properties: A molecular dynamics study. *Polymer* 2015, *75*, 151−160.
- (30) Heine, D. R.; Grest, G. S.; Lorenz, C. D.; Tsige, M.; Stevens, M. J. Atomistic Simulations of End-Linked [Poly\(dimethylsiloxane\)](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma035760j?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Networks: Structure and [Relaxation.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma035760j?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Macromolecules* 2004, *37*, 3857−3864.
- (31) Tam, L.-h.; Lau, D. A molecular dynamics [investigation](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4RA04298K) on the [cross-linking](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4RA04298K) and physical properties of epoxy-based materials. *RSC Adv.* 2014, *4*, 33074−33081.
- (32) Odegard, G. M.; Jensen, B. D.; Gowtham, S.; Wu, J.; He, J.; Zhang, Z. Predicting [mechanical](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cplett.2013.11.036) response of crosslinked epoxy using [ReaxFF.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cplett.2013.11.036) *Chem. Phys. Lett.* 2014, *591*, 175−178.
- (33) Vashisth, A.; Ashraf, C.; Bakis, C. E.; van Duin, A. C. [Effect](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2018.11.005) of chemical structure on [thermo-mechanical](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2018.11.005) properties of epoxy polymers: [Comparison](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2018.11.005) of accelerated ReaxFF simulations and [experiments.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2018.11.005) *Polymer* 2018, *158*, 354−363.
- (34) Mattsson, T. R.; Lane, J. M. D.; Cochrane, K. R.; Desjarlais, M. P.; Thompson, A. P.; Pierce, F.; Grest, G. S. [First-principles](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.81.054103) and classical molecular dynamics [simulation](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.81.054103) of shocked polymers. *Phys. Rev. B* 2010, *81*, 054103.
- (35) Rottler, J.; Robbins, M. O. Growth, [microstructure,](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevE.68.011801) and failure of crazes in glassy [polymers.](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevE.68.011801) *Phys. Rev. E* 2003, *68*, 011801.
- (36) Brown, H. R. A molecular [interpretation](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma00010a018?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of the toughness of glassy [polymers.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma00010a018?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Macromolecules* 1991, *24*, 2752−2756.
- (37) Meng, Z.; Bessa, M. A.; Xia, W.; Kam Liu, W.; Keten, S. Predicting the [Macroscopic](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b01508?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Fracture Energy of Epoxy Resins from Atomistic Molecular [Simulations.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.6b01508?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *Macromolecules* 2016, *49*, 9474− 9483.
- (38) Xu, H.; Gao, C.; Meng, Z.; Wang, A.; Keten, S.; Wu, Z. Atomistic [investigation](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijmecsci.2022.107412) of fracture mechanisms in phosphorus[functionalized](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijmecsci.2022.107412) epoxy resins. *International Journal of Mechanical Sciences* 2022, *227*, 107412.
- (39) Fan, J.; Anastassiou, A.; Macosko, C. W.; Tadmor, E. B. Molecular [Dynamics-Based](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11249-021-01422-0) Cohesive Law for Epoxy−Graphene [Interfaces.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11249-021-01422-0) *Tribol. Lett.* 2021, *69*, 55.
- (40) Ge, T.; Grest, G. S.; Robbins, M. O. Tensile [Fracture](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma501473q?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) of Welded Polymer Interfaces: Miscibility, [Entanglements,](https://doi.org/10.1021/ma501473q?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) and Crazing. *Macromolecules* 2014, *47*, 6982−6989.
- (41) Giuntoli, A.; Hansoge, N. K.; van Beek, A.; Meng, Z.; Chen, W.; Keten, S. Systematic [coarse-graining](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-021-00634-1) of epoxy resins with machine [learning-informed](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-021-00634-1) energy renormalization. *npj Computational Materials* 2021, *7*, 168.
- (42) Abbott, L. J.; Hart, K. E.; Colina, C. M. [Polymatic:](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00214-013-1334-z) a generalized simulated [polymerization](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00214-013-1334-z) algorithm for amorphous [polymers.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00214-013-1334-z) *Theor. Chem. Acc.* 2013, *132*, 1334.
- (43) Plimpton, S. Fast Parallel Algorithms for [Short-Range](https://doi.org/10.1006/jcph.1995.1039) Molecular [Dynamics.](https://doi.org/10.1006/jcph.1995.1039) *J. Comput. Phys.* 1995, *117*, 1−19.
- (44) van Duin, A. C. T.; Dasgupta, S.; Lorant, F.; Goddard, W. A. ReaxFF: A Reactive Force Field for [Hydrocarbons.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp004368u?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) *J. Phys. Chem. A* 2001, *105*, 9396−9409.
- (45) Willems, T. F.; Rycroft, C. H.; Kazi, M.; Meza, J. C.; Haranczyk, M. Algorithms and tools for [high-throughput](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micromeso.2011.08.020) geometrybased analysis of [crystalline](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micromeso.2011.08.020) porous materials. *Microporous Mesoporous Mater.* 2012, *149*, 134−141.
- (46) Foster, M.; Masser, K. A.; Lenhart, J. L. Tensile [Properties](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40870-016-0054-6) and Rate [Dependence](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40870-016-0054-6) of a Dual Amine Epoxy Network. *Journal of Dynamic Behavior of Materials* 2016, *2*, 112−121.

- (47) Knorr, D. B.; Yu, J. H.; Richardson, A. D.; Hindenlang, M. D.; McAninch, I. M.; La Scala, J. J.; Lenhart, J. L. Glass [transition](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2012.09.058) [dependence](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2012.09.058) of ultrahigh strain rate response in amine cured epoxy [resins.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2012.09.058) *Polymer* 2012, *53*, 5917−5923.
- (48) Bazant, Z. P.; Le, J.-L. *Probabilistic mechanics of quasibrittle structures: strength, lifetime, and size effect*; Cambridge University Press, 2017.
- (49) Sirk, T. W.; Khare, K. S.; Karim, M.; Lenhart, J. L.; Andzelm, J. W.; McKenna, G. B.; Khare, R. High strain rate [mechanical](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2013.10.051) properties of a [cross-linked](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2013.10.051) epoxy across the glass transition. *Polymer* 2013, *54*, 7048−7057.
- (50) Li, J.; Liu, X.; Wu, Z.; Wang, Z. The effect of [10-\(2,5](https://doi.org/10.1177/0954008315601733) dihydroxyphenyl)-9, [10-dihydro-9-oxa-10-phosphaphenanthrene-](https://doi.org/10.1177/0954008315601733) 10 oxide on liquid oxygen [compatibility](https://doi.org/10.1177/0954008315601733) and cryogenic mechanical [properties](https://doi.org/10.1177/0954008315601733) of epoxy resins. *High Perform. Polym.* 2016, *28*, 820−830.
- (51) Tam, L.-h.; Lau, D. Effect of structural voids on [mesoscale](https://doi.org/10.12989/mmm.2016.1.2.127) mechanics of [epoxybased](https://doi.org/10.12989/mmm.2016.1.2.127) materials. *Multiscale and Multiphysics Mechanics* 2016, *1*, 127−141.
- (52) Elder, R. M.; Sirk, T. W. [Topological](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7SM01695F) structure and mechanics of glassy polymer [networks.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7SM01695F) *Soft Matter* 2017, *13*, 8392−8401.
- (53) Zheng, X.; Guo, Y.; Douglas, J. F.; Xia, W. [Competing](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c01719?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Effects of Cohesive Energy and [Cross-Link](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c01719?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Density on the Segmental Dynamics and Mechanical Properties of [Cross-Linked](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.macromol.2c01719?urlappend=%3Fref%3DPDF&jav=VoR&rel=cite-as) Polymers. *Macromolecules* 2022, *55*, 9990−10004.
- (54) Zheng, X.; Guo, Y.; Douglas, J. F.; Xia, W. [Understanding](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0099322) the role of cross-link density in the [segmental](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0099322) dynamics and elastic properties of [cross-linked](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0099322) thermosets. *J. Chem. Phys.* 2022, *157*, 064901.
- (55) Bain, E. D.; Knorr, D. B.; Richardson, A. D.; Masser, K. A.; Yu, J.; Lenhart, J. L. Failure processes [governing](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10853-015-9544-5) high-rate impact resistance of epoxy resins filled with core−shell rubber [nanoparticles.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10853-015-9544-5) *J. Mater. Sci.* 2016, *51*, 2347−2370.