Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

# Acta Biomaterialia

journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/actabiomat

Full length article

# Collagen fibrils in functionally distinct tendons have differing structural responses to tendon rupture and fatigue loading

Tyler W. Herod <sup>a</sup>, Neil C. Chambers <sup>b</sup>, Samuel P. Veres <sup>a,b,\*</sup>

- <sup>a</sup> School of Biomedical Engineering, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada
- <sup>b</sup> Division of Engineering, Saint Mary's University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada

#### ARTICLE INFO

# Article history: Received 4 January 2016 Received in revised form 3 June 2016 Accepted 10 June 2016 Available online 14 June 2016

Keywords: Collagen fibril Structure-function Mechanics Tendon Damage

#### ABSTRACT

In this study we investigate relationships between the nanoscale structure of collagen fibrils and the macroscale functional response of collagenous tissues. To do so, we study two functionally distinct classes of tendons, positional tendons and energy storing tendons, using a bovine forelimb model. Molecular-level assessment using differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), functional crosslink assessment using hydrothermal isometric tension (HIT) analysis, and ultrastructural assessment using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) were used to study undamaged, ruptured, and cyclically loaded samples from the two tendon types. HIT indicated differences in both crosslink type and crosslink density, with flexor tendons having more thermally stable crosslinks than the extensor tendons (higher  $T_{Fmax}$  of >90 vs. 75.1 ± 2.7 °C), and greater total crosslink density than the extensor tendons (higher  $t_{1/2}$  of 11.5 ± 1.9 vs. 3.5 ± 1.0 h after NaBH₄ treatment). Despite having a lower crosslink density than flexor tendons, extensor tendons were significantly stronger  $(37.6 \pm 8.1 \text{ vs. } 23.1 \pm 7.7 \text{ MPa})$  and tougher  $(14.3 \pm 3.6 \text{ vs. } 6.8 \pm 3.4 \text{ MJ/m}^3)$ . SEM showed that collagen fibrils in the tougher, stronger extensor tendons were able to undergo remarkable levels of plastic deformation in the form of discrete plasticity, while those in the flexor tendons were not able to plastically deform. When cyclically loaded, collagen fibrils in extensor tendons accumulated fatigue damage rapidly in the form of kink bands, while those in flexor tendons did not accumulate significant fatigue damage. The results demonstrate that collagen fibrils in functionally distinct tendons respond differently to mechanical loading, and suggests that fibrillar collagens may be subject to a strength vs. fatigue resistance tradeoff.

#### **Statement of Significance**

Collagen fibrils—nanoscale biological cables—are the fundamental load-bearing elements of all structural human tissues. While all collagen fibrils share common features, such as being composed of a precise quarter-staggered polymeric arrangement of triple-helical collagen molecules, their structure can vary significantly between tissue types, and even between different anatomical structures of the same tissue type. To understand normal function, homeostasis, and disease of collagenous tissues requires detailed knowledge of collagen fibril structure-function. Using anatomically proximate but structurally distinct tendons, we show that collagen fibrils in functionally distinct tendons have differing susceptibilities to damage under both tensile overload and cyclic fatigue loading. Our results suggest that the structure of collagen fibrils may lead to a strength versus fatigue resistance tradeoff, where high strength is gained at the expense of fatigue resistance, and vice versa.

© 2016 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

#### 1. Introduction

Collagen fibrils are the fundamental load bearing element of structural tissues within the human body. They are only nanome-

E-mail address: sam.veres@smu.ca (S.P. Veres).

ters in diameter (range  $\sim$ 30–500 nm), but have lengths on the order of millimeters [1], making them essentially nanoscale biological cables. Each fibril is composed of a precise quarter-staggered arrangement of triple-helical collagen molecules [2], which are covalently crosslinked to one another [3], conferring strength to the fibril [4,5], and stability to the molecules [6,7].

Because collagen fibrils are an integral part of so many tissues within the body, understanding their response to functional

<sup>\*</sup> Corresponding author at: Division of Engineering, Saint Mary's University, 923 Robie Street, Halifax, NS B3H 3C3, Canada.

loading in both health and disease is of great importance. Linking macroscale tissue response to nanoscale collagen fibril response is necessary to understand the workings of collagenous tissues, but is an extremely difficult process due to the disparate length scales involved. To aid in understanding collagen structurefunction relations, tendons are commonly used as a study subject, because they have the most basic architecture amongst the collagenous tissues (though tendon architecture is by no means simple).

Tendons are intermediate tissue structures that connect and transmit tensile forces from muscle to bone. They are mostly composed of water (50–60% of their wet weight [\[8,9\]](#page-10-0)) and collagen (70–85% of their dry weight [\[8–10\]\)](#page-10-0). While structural complexities involving several levels of hierarchy exist including fascicles and fibres [\[11\],](#page-10-0) tendons are essentially a collection of parallel, longitudinally aligned collagen fibrils. The forces transmitted by tendons from muscle to bone are carried by their longitudinal collagen fibrils [\[12–14\].](#page-10-0) To date, most studies have investigated tendon structure-function using a single tendon model. Many studies have, and continue to use, the rat tail tendon [\[15–18\].](#page-10-0) Some research groups have adopted different models: the rat patellar tendon [\[19,20\]](#page-11-0), the mouse supraspinatus tendon [\[21,22\]](#page-11-0), the bovine tail tendon [\[8,23\].](#page-10-0) All of these models share the same basic structural features: the tendons are composed of distinct fascicles, which are in turn composed of longitudinally aligned collagen fibrils that are arranged in distinct fibres. How generalizable are the results from any one model though? How much does the structure of collagen fibrils differ between tendons, and how large an impact can this have on functional response?

Previous research has already demonstrated that important structural and mechanical differences exist between different tendons in the same individual. Two distinct classes of tendon are now recognized: those that act to position limbs under little load (positional tendons), and those that drive locomotion by storing strain energy under large stresses and subsequently releasing it (energy storing tendons) [\[24\]](#page-11-0). Using equine and bovine models, it has been shown that energy storing tendons have thinner collagen fibrils [\[25\],](#page-11-0) a higher concentration of sulfated glycosaminoglycans [\[24\],](#page-11-0) and greater cellularity [\[24\]](#page-11-0) but slower collagen turnover [\[26\]](#page-11-0) compared to positional tendons from the same forelimb. During elongation, energy storing tendons show greater levels of sliding between fascicles [\[27\],](#page-11-0) but reduced levels of fibre sliding within fascicles [\[28\]](#page-11-0). Although energy storing tendons experience larger tensile stresses in vivo [\[29\]](#page-11-0), and demonstrate superior fatigue resistance [\[30\]](#page-11-0), positional tendons have greater stiffness and strength [\[27\].](#page-11-0)

While positional and energy storing tendons are clearly very different in function, structure, and mechanics, there remains much to be learned about how the differing mechanics of these tendons relates to their structures, and how these structures serve their tendons' specialized functions. This is particularly true at the nanoscale, where little is currently known about how differences in collagen fibril structure may contribute to the differences in macroscale mechanics observed between tendon types.

In this study, we use pair-matched positional and energy storing tendons from bovine forelimbs to show that significant nanostructural differences can exist between anatomically proximate tendons. We subsequently show that these structural differences result in significant differences in mechanical properties. We then go on to relate the mechanical differences observed on the macroscale to the nanoscale structural differences observed in the tendons' collagen fibrils. Through this process we show that macroscale tendon strength may be related to collagen fibril plasticity, and that collagen fibril fatigue resistance may be related to crosslinking and molecular stability. Our results have interesting potential implications for numerous collagenous tissues in the form of a potential strength vs. fatigue resistance tradeoff that may exist for fibrillar collagens.

#### 2. Materials and methods

An overview of the experimental procedure is shown in Fig. 1

Fig. 1. Experimental procedure used to assess the molecular and nanostructural consequences of rupture and fatigue loading in two functionally distinct classes of tendon: positional tendons and energy storing tendons. In this study, the two classes of tendon were represented by using common digital extensor tendons (positional) and superficial digital flexor tendons (energy storing) from bovine forelimbs.

#### <span id="page-2-0"></span>2.1. Tissue collection & sample preparation

Forelimbs from 24 to 36 month-old adult steers killed for food were collected from a local abattoir. Only one forelimb per animal was collected. The common digital extensor tendon and superficial digital flexor tendon (hereinafter frequently referred to simply as the "extensor tendon" and "flexor tendon") were removed, laid flat between sheets of gauze moistened with phosphate buffered saline (PBS), double bagged, and stored at  $-86\,^{\circ}\text{C}$ .

In preparation for testing, tendons were removed from frozen storage and allowed to thaw at room temperature in their sealed bags. For this study, the extensor and flexor tendons from seven forelimbs taken from seven different animals were used. Each tendon was cut to a length of 45 mm, and then cut longitudinally to produce several parallel, matched-pair samples that ranged in diameter from 3 to 5 mm. Samples were assigned to the following five experimental groups: crosslink analysis, control (preconditioning only), rupture, 500 cycle fatigue, 1000 cycle fatigue.

### 2.2. Molecular stability & crosslink assessment

Samples from all seven extensor/flexor tendon pairs (n = 7) were assessed for molecular stability and functional crosslinking using hydrothermal isometric tension testing (HIT), as described previously [31–33]. Each tendon sample was cut to a length of 15 mm and fixed using clamps to a load cell at one end and a fixed support at the other end. Once mounted, tendon samples were submerged in room temperature distilled, deionized water. A tensile preload of 60 g was applied to each sample. Using a hotplate, the temperature of the water bath containing the isometrically constrained samples was increased at a constant rate to 90 °C. During the temperature ramp, time, temperature, and load data were recorded at 0.2 Hz. Analyses of the resulting data were conducted using Microsoft Excel (Office for Mac 2011), and each sample's denaturation temperature ( $T_d$ ) and temperature of maximum force generation ( $T_{Fmax}$ ) were recorded (Fig. 2A).

Samples from an additional seven extensor/flexor tendon pairs (n = 7), collected from seven different 24–36 month-old steers, were used HIT thermal relaxation assessment, which provides an indication of crosslink density. Four to six 15-mm-long longitudinal samples were cut from the centre of each tendon. In order to convert all crosslinks present to a heat-stable form, two samples from each tendon underwent crosslink stabilization treatment using sodium borohydride, as described previously [34]. Each sample underwent four 15-min rinses at 4 °C in 100 mL of a borate buffer solution (pH 9.0) containing 0.1 mg/mL sodium borohydride, under continuous agitation. Each sample was then rinsed twice and stored in distilled water. The untreated and crosslink stabilized samples were fixed in the HIT system and preloaded as described above. The distilled, deionized water bath containing the isometrically constrained samples was heated to 90 °C (Fig. 2B), and then maintained at  $90 \pm 0.6$  °C for three hours. During the isotherm, time, temperature and load data were recorded at 0.2 Hz. For each sample, a plot of ln(load/maximum load) vs. time was created, and a linear line was fit to a 3000-s data interval starting at 1000 s (Fig. 2C). The slope of the best fit line was used to calculate each sample's half-time of load decay ( $t_{1/2}$ ), as described previously [33]. The half-times for the duplicate samples were then averaged to produce a single value for each tendon.

#### 2.3. Mechanical testing

Mechanical testing was conducted using a servo-hydraulic materials testing system (MTS 458-series, MTS, Eden Prairie, MN), controlled using custom software written in LabVIEW (version 2010, National Instruments, Austin, TX). All testing was con-

**Fig. 2.** Representative load-temperature responses during hydrothermal isometric tension (HIT) analysis for common digital extensor and superficial digital flexor tendons taken from the same bovine forelimb. (A) Positional extensor tendons had significantly lower denaturation temperatures  $(T_d)$ , indicating that they contained collagen molecules with lower molecular stability compared to the energy storing flexor tendons. The decline in load of extensor tendons well before  $90\,^{\circ}\text{C}$  ( $T_{Fmax}$  <  $90\,^{\circ}\text{C}$ ) indicated the absence of significant levels of thermally stable crosslinking. (B) After borohydride treatment, extensor tendons no longer failed prior to  $90\,^{\circ}\text{C}$ , indicating the successful conversion of heat-labile crosslinks to a heat-stable form. (C) For crosslink stabilized tissue, load decay was much slower during the  $90\,^{\circ}\text{C}$  isotherm for flexor tendons, indicating a much greater total crosslink density than in the extensor tendons.

ducted in a room-temperature PBS bath containing 1% antibiotic antimycotic (anti-anti) solution (product #A5955, Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO). Prior to testing, each tendon sample was vertically suspended by one end and photographed four times at 90° increments of axial rotation. The photos were then used to calculate

<span id="page-3-0"></span>the sample's elliptical cross-sectional area. Samples were mounted in the materials testing system using crush grips lined with 180 grit waterproof sandpaper. Samples were mounted with visible slack, and then extended until a tensile load of 0.2 N was registered. The intergrip length of the samples at this position, which varied from 9 to 11 mm, was taken as the initial, zero load length. All samples that underwent mechanical testing were first preconditioned by applying 10 loading cycles to a peak strain of 10%, and all mechanical testing was conducted using a strain rate of 10%/s. Samples in the control group (n = 5 extensor/flexor pairs) received preconditioning only. Samples in the rupture group (n = 7 pairs) were preconditioned, and then pulled to rupture at a strain rate of 10%/s. The ultimate tensile strength of each rupture sample was then calculated. Samples in the 500 cycle fatigue group (n = 5 pairs) were preconditioned, and then loaded at 10%/s to 30% of the ultimate tensile strength of their matched-pair rupture sample 500 times. Samples in the 1000 cycle fatigue group (n = 4 pairs) were tested the same way, but for 1000 cycles instead of 500.

After testing, the gripped ends of each sample were removed using a razor blade. Samples were then prepared for differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM), as described below.

#### 2.4. Differential scanning calorimetry

After mechanical testing, the structural state of collagen molecules within the tendons was assessed using DSC. Immediately following mechanical testing a 2 mm length was removed from one end of each tendon sample. These DSC samples were stored at 4 C in sealed tubes containing fresh PBS with anti-anti for 24–36 h prior to DSC testing.

For both the extensor and flexor tendons, five control samples, six ruptured samples, and eight fatigue samples (five 500 cycle and three 1000 cycle) were assessed using DSC. For the DSC test, each sample was blotted dry to remove excess surface liquid and divided again, yielding subsamples with wet weights of 12.0 ± 3.0 mg. Each subsample was gently pressed into the bottom of an aluminum sample pan to maximize pan/sample contact area. The pans were then hermetically sealed. Each sample was run against an empty pan using a Q200 differential scanning calorimeter (TA Instruments, New Castle, DE). Samples were equilibrated at 40 C, and then ramped to 90 C at 5 C/min while data were recorded at 5 Hz. After the DSC runs were complete, the sample pans were pierced and dried in an oven at 110 C for 24 h. Pans were then reweighed, and the dry weight of each sample was recorded.

Endotherms were analyzed using Universal Analysis 2000 software (version 4.5A, TA Instruments) for onset temperature (Tonset), peak temperature (Tpeak), full-width at half-maximum (FWHM), and specific enthalpy of denaturation (Dh) calculated based on dry sample weight (Fig. 3).

# 2.5. Scanning electron microscopy

After mechanical testing, samples were also prepared for ultrastructural assessment using SEM. From both the extensor and flexor tendons, four control samples, four ruptured samples, and five fatigue samples (three 500 cycle and two 1000 cycle) were assessed. After mechanical testing, SEM samples were stored overnight at 4 C in fresh PBS with anti-anti. The following day, samples underwent three, fifteen-minute rinses in distilled water, and were then fixed for one hour in 2.5% SEM-grade glutaraldehyde. After fixation, the samples were again triple-rinsed in distilled water. Using a razor blade, each sample was bisected longitudinally to expose its interior. The samples were then dehydrated in graded ethanol, critical point dried, mounted on SEM stubs using carbon

# Tonset -4 -3 -2 -1 0 **Heat Flow (W/g)** Exo Up FWHM **Flexor & Extensor Tendons** extensor tendon Tpeak Δh

**Representative DSC Responses for Paired**

Fig. 3. Representative power-temperature responses during differential scanning calorimetry for digital flexor and extensor tendons taken from the same bovine forelimb. The responses shown are from samples in the Control group, which received mechanical preconditioning only. Compared to extensor tendons, matched-pair analyses ([Table 1\)](#page-5-0) showed that flexor tendons were composed of collagen molecules with a greater and more uniform thermal stability (higher Tonset and Tpeak, and lower FWHM).

**Temperature (°C)**

30 40 50 60 70 80 90

tape with their internal, exposed surfaces facing upward, and coated using gold-palladium. The samples were then examined at magnifications of up to 90,000X using a Hitashi S-4700 scanning electron microscope operating at 3 kV, 15 lm.

For the control samples, both crimp wavelength and fibril diameter were measured using the resulting SEM images. All measurements were done using ImageJ software (version 1.44o, National Institutes of Health). Crimp wavelength measurements were made at least four different locations in each sample. At each location, the total length of at least three consecutive waveforms was measured and used to calculate the average crimp wavelength at that location. Fibril diameters were measured at least six locations in each sample, with a minimum of 75 fibrils measured per sample. The multiple measurements made on each sample were averaged, producing a single measurement of crimp and fibril diameter for each tendon.

# 2.6. Statistics

Statistical analyses were conducted using JMP software (version 11.0, SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC). Data are presented as mean ± standard deviation. For HIT data from the untreated extensor and flexor tendons, samples were marked as having ''survived" the HIT test if they had a TFmax P90 C. The proportions of extensor and flexor tendons that survived the HIT test were compared using Fisher's exact test. All other data were analyzed using repeated measures ANOVA, followed by matched-pair Student's t-tests. For comparisons of HIT t1/2 data, and DSC data between different tests within each tendon type, the critical p-value required for significance was reduced using a Bonferroni adjustment to p = 0.0167.

# 3. Results

3.1. Extensor tendons (positional) and flexor tendons (energy storing) have significantly different ultrastructures

Four common digital extensor tendons and four superficial digital flexor tendons that had undergone preconditioning only were assessed using SEM. Extensor and flexor tendons both contained longitudinally aligned collagen fibrils organized into well-defined bundles that had waveform crimp (Fig. S1). The wavelength of <span id="page-4-0"></span>the collagen crimp in extensor tendons was 124 ± 7 lm, significantly longer than the crimp wavelength in flexor tendons, which measured 57 ± 10 lm (p = 0.004). At the nanoscale, the crimp in both extensor and flexor tendons was produced by smooth curves in the collagen fibrils and not by fibril kinking (Fig. 4), important in regard to the details of fatigue damage, presented below.

Collagen fibrils in both extensor and flexor tendons showed clear D-banding (Fig. 4, bottom panel). The collagen fibrils in flexor tendons were significantly thinner than those in the extensor tendons. Average fibril diameter in the flexor tendons was 80 ± 7 nm, while that in the extensor tendons was 134 ± 5 nm (p = 0.0004). Histogram plots of all fibrils measured showed that extensor tendons contained an interspersed mixture of small (70 nm) and large (160 nm) collagen fibrils, with more of the large fibrils present (Fig. S2, upper panel). Flexor tendons, on the other hand, contained a large proportion of small diameter fibrils (35–75 nm) mixed with relatively few larger diameter fibrils (Fig. S2, bottom panel).

Other differences in the matrix of extensor and flexor tendons were also apparent. The collagen fibrils of extensor tendons often had little to no additional types of visible matrix covering or attached to them (Fig. 4, bottom panel). In flexor tendons, on the other hand, collagen fibrils were often covered in a thick webbing of matrix composed of thin filaments measuring approximately 20 nm in diameter that lacked D-banding. Though poorly aligned, the filaments generally ran across collagen fibrils, connecting them laterally ([Fig. 5\)](#page-5-0).

# 3.2. Collagen in extensor and flexor tendons has significantly different molecular stability and crosslinking

Representative HIT curves for extensor/flexor tendon pairs from the same forelimbs are shown in [Fig. 2](#page-2-0).

HIT denaturation temperature of flexor tendons was significantly higher than for the paired extensor tendons ([Table 1](#page-5-0)), indicating that the flexor tendons were composed of collagen molecules with greater thermal stability. The dominant type of crosslinking was also different between the two tendons: extensor tendons generated maximum force during HIT at 75.1 ± 2.7 C, indicating that their collagen molecules were mostly joined by immature aldimine crosslinks, which are heat labile [\[35,36\].](#page-11-0) The force generated by all seven flexor tendons, on the other hand, was still increasing at 90 C, indicating that their collagen molecules were mostly joined by either immature ketoamine crosslinks, or mature trivalent crosslinks, both of which are heat stable [\[36\]](#page-11-0).

During thermal relaxation in HIT, load decayed significantly more slowly in crosslink stabilized flexor tendons (t1/2 = 11.5 ± 1.9 h) than in crosslink stabilized extensor tendons (t1/2 = 3.5 ± 1.0 h; p < 0.0001), indicating that total crosslinking density was significantly higher in the flexor tendons [\(Table 1\)](#page-5-0). For the flexor tendons, NaBH4 treatment significantly slowed the rate of thermal relaxation compared to untreated flexor samples (t1/2 values of 11.5 ± 1.9 vs. 6.3 ± 2.4 h; p = 0.0074), indicating that the flexor tendons contained a significant population of heat labile crosslinks in addition to heat stable crosslinks.

Representative DSC curves of an extensor/flexor pair from the same bovine forelimb are shown in [Fig. 3](#page-3-0). Endotherm onset and peak temperatures for flexor tendons were significantly higher than for extensor tendons ([Table 1](#page-5-0)), again indicating greater molecular stability in the flexor tendons. Endotherm full-width at half-maximum was significantly smaller for flexor tendons compared to extensor tendons, indicating greater uniformity in the collagen structure. Flexor tendons also had a significantly lower specific enthalpy of denaturation than extensor tendons.

Fig. 4. In both control extensor and flexor tendon samples, crimp was produced by smooth curves in the collagen fibrils, as shown in this series of micrographs taken at progressively higher magnification. Compare to the sharp kink bands in extensor tendons caused by fatigue loading ([Fig. 9\)](#page-8-0).

# 3.3. Extensor tendons are significantly stronger and tougher than flexor tendons

The tensile mechanical properties of matched-pair flexor and extensor tendons were compared using the samples that had been pulled to rupture. The positional extensor tendons, which HIT had shown to be less crosslinked, were significantly stronger and

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Fig. 5. Collagen fibrils in the energy storing flexor tendons were frequently coated in a webbing of filamentous matrix that connected the fibrils laterally to one another. Little of this lateral webbing was observed in positional extensor tendons, where collagen fibrils were generally free of significant quantities of other forms of matrix [\(Fig. 4,](#page-4-0) bottom panel).

Table 1 Hydrothermal isometric tension (HIT) data and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) data indicate that flexor and extensor tendons have significantly different molecular stabilities and intermolecular collagen crosslinking.

|                                    | Common digital<br>extensor tendon | Superficial digital<br>flexor tendon |            |  |
|------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|--------------------------------------|------------|--|
| HIT data                           |                                   |                                      |            |  |
| Native, untreated tissue:          |                                   |                                      |            |  |
| Td (C)                             | 62.7 ± 0.4                        | 65.4 ± 0.7                           | p < 0.0001 |  |
| TFmax (C)                          | 75.1 ± 2.7                        | >90                                  | p = 0.0006 |  |
| t1/2 (hrs)                         | –                                 | 6.3 ± 2.4                            |            |  |
| NaBH4 crosslink stabilized tissue: |                                   |                                      |            |  |
| t1/2 (hrs)                         | 3.5 ± 1.0                         | 11.5 ± 1.9                           | p < 0.0001 |  |
| DSC data                           |                                   |                                      |            |  |
| Tonset (C)                         | 63.1 ± 1.0                        | 64.4 ± 0.7                           | p = 0.0041 |  |
| Tpeak (C)                          | 65.4 ± 0.7                        | 65.8 ± 0.8                           | p = 0.0421 |  |
| FWHM (C)                           | 2.7 ± 0.5                         | 1.7 ± 0.1                            | p = 0.0071 |  |
| Dh (J/g dry                        | 58.0 ± 13.7                       | 40.7 ± 10.1                          | p = 0.0478 |  |
| mass)                              |                                   |                                      |            |  |

Samples used for HIT crosslink assessment were not mechanically tested. For this table, DSC data is from control samples that underwent mechanical preconditioning only.

Table 2 When pulled to rupture at 10%/s, positional common digital extensor tendons were significantly stronger and tougher than energy storing superficial digital flexor tendons from the same bovine forelimb.

|                                           | Common digital<br>extensor tendon | Superficial digital<br>flexor tendon |            |
|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|--------------------------------------|------------|
| Young's modulus, E<br>(MPa)               | 150.7 ± 46.3                      | 102.0 ± 33.9                         | p > 0.1    |
| Yield strain (%)                          | 32.5 ± 12.4                       | 38.2 ± 18.2                          | p > 0.5    |
| Yield strength, ry<br>(MPa)               | 29.7 ± 8.9                        | 19.4 ± 6.5                           | p = 0.0148 |
| Ultimate strength,<br>ru (MPa)            | 37.6 ± 8.1                        | 23.1 ± 7.7                           | p = 0.0038 |
| Modulus of<br>toughness, U<br>(MJ/m3<br>) | 14.3 ± 3.6                        | 6.8 ± 3.4                            | p = 0.0108 |

tougher than matched-pair energy storing flexor tendons (Table 2). Representative stress-strain curves from each tendon type are shown in Supplementary Fig. S3.

3.4. Tendon strength and toughness may be related to collagen fibril plasticity

Tendon samples that had been pulled to rupture were assessed using scanning electron microscopy. In the stronger, tougher extensor tendons, but not in the energy storing flexor tendons, extensive regions of collagen fibrils that had undergone discrete plasticity were found [\(Fig. 6,](#page-6-0) top and middle panels). These strain-damaged fibrils, not present in the control samples, were characterized by the presence of longitudinally repeating kinks. Regions containing fibrils with discrete plasticity often had little to no visible microscale crimp remaining, despite the samples having been allowed to recover unloaded in PBS for a minimum of 15 h between rupture and glutaraldehyde fixation the next day.

Unlike the positional extensor tendons, rupturing energy storing flexor tendons at 10%/s did not produce collagen fibrils with discrete plasticity. Some regions with what appeared to be strain-damaged fibrils were found ([Fig. 6,](#page-6-0) bottom panel), however, they were rare and the fibrils lacked the systematic longitudinal kinking characteristic of discrete plasticity.

The ruptured flexor and extensor samples were also analyzed using DSC, and compared to control samples (preconditioned only) from the same tendons. Consistent with our SEM observations, rupture had a detrimental effect on the thermal stability of collagen molecules within extensor tendons, but not flexor tendons. For extensor tendons only, rupture decreased the stability of the least stable collagen molecules within the tendons, significantly decreasing endotherm onset temperature [\(Fig. 7](#page-6-0)). For flexor tendons, which did not show discrete plasticity under SEM, the thermal stability of collagen molecules remained unchanged following rupture.

3.5. Collagen fibrils in flexor tendons show greater resistance to fatigue loading than those in extensor tendons

Mechanical data for the four pairs of extensor and flexor samples subjected to 1000 cycles of fatigue loading are shown in [Fig. 8.](#page-7-0) Extensor tendons had significantly greater modulus of elasticity, peak strain, and hysteresis than the flexor tendons. Compared to their responses during the first loading cycle, the two tendon types underwent statistically similar fractional changes in modulus and peak strain ([Fig. 8](#page-7-0), right column). Hysteresis, which was greater in the extensor tendons, underwent a greater fractional decrease in the extensor tendons compared to the flexor tendons.

Despite undergoing similar relative changes in mechanical properties during cyclic loading, SEM analysis showed an accumulation of fatigue damage to the collagen fibrils in extensor tendons, but not in flexor tendons. In extensor tendons that underwent both 500 and 1000 cycles of fatigue loading, kink bands were found at locations throughout the tendons [\(Figs. 9–11,](#page-8-0) S4). Kink bands were formed by fibrils that had been laterally kinked in register with one another, sometimes along a single plane ([Fig. 9\)](#page-8-0), and other times along multiple planes ([Fig. 11](#page-8-0)). At high magnification, individual fibril kinks making up the kink band often had a twisted or folded appearance [\(Fig. 9C](#page-8-0)). Occasionally, more highly disrupted (Fig. S4) and even broken fibrils [\(Fig. 10](#page-8-0)) were found within kink bands.

The collagen fibrils in flexor tendons appeared to be highly resistant to fatigue damage: kink bands were rarely observed in the 1000 cycle samples, and never seen in the 500 cycle samples. Evidence of matrix shearing was the only form of fatigue damage frequently observed in the energy storing flexor tendons ([Fig. 12\)](#page-9-0).

In addition to kink bands, the extensor tendons that had undergone 1000 cycles of fatigue loading also contained fibrils with discrete plasticity damage ([Fig. 11\)](#page-8-0), consistent with those seen in the ruptured extensor tendons ([Fig. 6](#page-6-0)). The presence of discrete plas-

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Fig. 6. Top & Middle: In the stronger, tougher extensor tendons, rupture at 10%/s created extensive regions of fibrils with discrete plasticity damage, characterized by kinks that repeated along the length of individual fibrils with nanoscale spatial frequency. The ability of fibrils to undergo discrete plasticity, as seen here, may increase tendon load bearing capacity: discrete plasticity was not observed in the weaker energy storing flexor tendons after rupture. Bottom: Rupture at 10%/s did not alter the structure of fibrils in the flexor tendons notably. In rare instances, regions with fibrils that appeared to have been plastically damaged were found, as shown here. Unlike the ruptured extensor tendons, though, regions of fibrils with discrete plasticity were not found.

ticity suggests that these fibrils had reached their normal limit of elongation, and that the tendons were perhaps close to entering the tertiary region of creep leading to failure. Compared to the

Fig. 7. DSC-based structural assessment of collagen molecules within digital extensor and flexor tendons after rupture and fatigue loading compared to preconditioned controls. Only rupture affected enough collagen molecules to produce a signal change in DSC, and only in the positional extensor tendons. For the extensor tendons, the decrease in endotherm onset temperature indicates that rupture increased the lateral spacing between collagen molecules. This change is likely due to the formation of discrete plasticity damage during rupture (Fig. 6), which occurred in extensor tendons but not in flexor tendons. \* p 6 0.0167.

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Fig. 8. Mechanical data for flexor and extensor tendon samples subject to cyclic creep loading to 30% of their ultimate stresses for 1000 cycles. Extensor tendons generally had a greater modulus of elasticity, achieved larger peak strains, and dissipated a greater proportion of the input strain energy during cyclic loading compared to the flexor tendons. While peak strain data indicate that both extensor and flexor samples were within the secondary creep region after 1000 loading cycles, SEM observation suggests that extensor samples were probably close to entering the tertiary creep region [\(Fig. 11](#page-8-0)).

ruptured extensor tendons, far fewer regions of fibrils with discrete plasticity were observed, and when found, tended to be less expansive in the lateral direction.

The cyclically loaded extensor and flexor tendons were also assessed using DSC. No significant change to the structure of collagen molecules within either tendon type occurred as the result of cyclic loading ([Fig. 7\)](#page-6-0), consistent with SEM observations of little to no fibril damage in the flexor tendons, and highly localized fibril damage within the extensor tendons.

## 4. Discussion

In this study we have shown that anatomically proximate tendons can have dramatically different collagen structures, leading to significant differences in their response to tensile loading, rupture, and fatigue. The common digital extensor tendon from bovine forelimb has high strength and toughness, which may result from the ability of its collagen fibrils to plastically deform when overloaded. However, this tendon rapidly accumulates fatigue damage when cyclically loaded. The situation is reversed for the superficial digital flexor tendon from bovine forelimb: its collagen fibrils do not readily incur fatigue damage, possibly from a higher level of intermolecular crosslinking and a network of filamentous webbing that joins fibrils laterally, but is significantly weaker and less tough than the extensor tendon. These results pose the intriguing question of whether the structure of collagen fibrils may be subject to a strength vs. fatigue resistance tradeoff, where higher strength can only be gained at the detriment of fatigue resistance, and vice versa.

Both bovine and equine common digital extensor and superficial digital flexor forelimb tendons have been used previously as examples of positional and energy storing tendons. The equine flexor tendon is indeed a true energy storing tendon, stretching by 10–15% during galloping [\[27,37,38\]](#page-11-0) and storing and releasing considerable energy [\[39\].](#page-11-0) While similar data is not available for the bovine forelimb model, measurements of muscle crosssectional area indicate that bovine flexor tendons experience significantly more stress than extensor tendons: 69 MPa vs. 8–11 MPa, respectively [\[29\].](#page-11-0) These values are very close to those reported for the equine forelimb analogues [\[29\].](#page-11-0)

Despite sustaining significantly lower tensile stresses in vivo [\[29\]](#page-11-0), in this study we found that common digital extensor tendons from bovine forelimbs were significantly stronger and tougher than superficial digital flexor tendons ([Table 2](#page-5-0)). Similar results have been reported previously, for both individual fascicles from bovine forelimb tendons [\[30\]](#page-11-0) and whole equine forelimb tendons [\[27\]](#page-11-0). The significant differences in strength and toughness between positional and energy storing tendons are most likely caused by the structural differences in their collagen fibrils, particularly differences in intermolecular crosslinking. While we did not perform chemical crosslink analysis in the current study, which we acknowledge as a limitation of the present work, our hydrothermal isometric tension (HIT) analyses clearly demonstrate that significant differences in collagen crosslinking exist between these two

<span id="page-8-0"></span>Fig. 9. In the positional extensor tendons, cyclic loading caused the development of kink bands (arrows in A point to three kink bands). Kink bands were readily found in extensor tendons that had undergone both 1000 cycles (A) and 500 cycles (B, C) of loading. The kink bands were caused by a laterally aligned folding of individual collagen fibrils (C). Kink bands were not found in control samples, and were rarely seen in the cyclically loaded flexor tendons.

tendons. First, our TFmax data show that the dominant species of crosslinking in flexor and extensor tendons are chemically distinct. After the denaturation temperature, the linear increase in tension with temperature for untreated flexor tendons demonstrates that the intermolecular crosslinks joining dissociated a-chains are not heat labile, meaning that they are either mature, trivalent crosslinks, or divalent keto-amine crosslinks [\[36\].](#page-11-0) Previous work

Fig. 10. The fate of fibrils within kink bands: fatigue rupture. In occasional cases, the broken ends of fibrils were seen within the kink bands that formed in extensor tendons (red arrows in lower image). (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)

Fig. 11. In addition to kink bands (yellow arrows), extensor tendons that underwent 1000 cycles also contained fibrils that had undergone discrete plasticity (note the repeating kinks present along the length of individual fibrils—a phenomena quite distinct from the kink band). The presence of fibrils with discrete plasticity indicates that these tendons were likely in or nearing the tertiary phase of creep, leading to rupture. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)

<span id="page-9-0"></span>Fig. 12. Within the energy storing flexor tendons, the only form of fatigue damage frequently found after 1000 cycles of loading to 30% of ultimate stress was matrix shearing, as shown here. Note the sharp change in fibril direction in the centre of the lower image, indicating that neighboring fibrils are well adhered to one another. Also note the filamentous webbing covering the fibrils, a feature frequently seen in the flexor tendons but not in the extensor tendons.

indicates that most are probably the mature, trivalent hydroxylysyl pyridinoline crosslink [\[40\].](#page-11-0) In contrast, the rate of tension generation with increasing temperature declines quickly in untreated extensor tendons ([Fig. 2A](#page-2-0)), indicating an overwhelming presence of immature aldimine crosslinks, which are easily broken via heating [\[35,36\].](#page-11-0)

Second, our t1/2 data indicate that the energy storing digital flexor tendons had significantly greater total crosslinking density than the anatomically proximate, positional extensor tendons. When held under isometric constraint at 90 C using HIT, the tension accumulated in a collagenous tissue during the proceeding temperature ramp declines following a Maxwell decay as hydrolysis of the collagen molecule polypeptide a-chains occur [\[41\].](#page-11-0) The rate of load decay is dependent on the concentration of heat stable crosslinks: tissues with a higher concentration of heat stable crosslinks will experience slower load decay. For example, maturation and aging of many collagenous tissues is accompanied by an increase in heat stable crosslinking as divalent crosslinks are converted into mature, trivalent crosslinks [\[40,42\]](#page-11-0). Accordingly, the rate of load decay in HIT decreases with increasing tissue age [\[34,41,43,44\]](#page-11-0). Exogenous crosslinking has also been shown to slow isothermal load decay [\[45\]](#page-11-0). The relationship between crosslinking and load decay in HIT can be directly shown by employing borohydride crosslink stabilization. Treating collagen with borohydride chemically reduces heat labile, immature, aldimine crosslinks to a heat stable form [\[35,46\]](#page-11-0). For tissues with these crosslinks, borohydride treatment increases the total number of crosslinks present during the isotherm, thereby reducing the rate of load decay [\[34,44\]](#page-11-0). The utility of borohydride treatment is best shown in the present study by the extensor tendons, where following stabilization they no longer failed during the temperature ramp to 90 C ([Fig. 2A](#page-2-0) vs. B). Comparing the rate of load decay for crosslink stabilized tissues thus provides a relative measure of the total concentration of crosslinking present—immature, mature, and nonenzymatic, combined. For the crosslink stabilized tissue tested in the present study, load decay occurred more than three times slower for the flexor tendons than it did for extensor tendons ([Fig 2C](#page-2-0); [Table 1](#page-5-0)), indicating greater overall levels of crosslinking in the flexor tendons.

The inhibition of enzymatic crosslinking leads to a dramatic reduction in the strength of collagenous tissues. This has been well shown in studies that have used experimental lathyrism. Intake of b-aminopropionitrile inhibits lysyl oxidase [\[47\],](#page-11-0) preventing the formation of the lysine and allysine aldehydes required to form intermolecular crosslinks. The tail tendons of rats raised on diets supplemented with b-aminopropionitrile show marked reductions in ultimate strength, despite having normal collagen content and normally sized fibrils [\[4,48\]](#page-10-0). Similar results have been reported for other tissues, including the aorta [\[49\]](#page-11-0), and cortical bone [\[50\].](#page-11-0)

Given that inhibiting enzymatic crosslinking reduces tendon strength [\[4,48\]](#page-10-0), one would expect that increasing crosslinking density would strengthen a tendon. Yet, the more highly crosslinked superficial digital flexor tendons tested in the current study were weaker and less tough than the less crosslinked common digital extensor tendons. Hansen et al. [\[51\]](#page-11-0) reported similar findings for fascicles from human patellar tendons: posterior fascicles were significantly weaker than anterior fascicles despite having higher levels of crosslinking. Previous research has shown that during extension, greater levels of fibre sliding occur within the fascicles of equine extensor tendons compared to flexor tendons [\[28\].](#page-11-0) Reduced fibre sliding may prevent even load distribution between fibrils, potentially lowering the strength of flexor tendons despite a high level of intermolecular crosslinking within fibrils.

In addition to the important differences in fascicle and fibre sliding characteristics of energy storing and positional tendons [\[27,28\]](#page-11-0), differences in fibril extensibility may also contribute to the observed differences in strength and toughness. As opposed to simply rupturing when overloaded, collagen fibrils that are able to deform plastically could help to evenly distribute force within a tendon. Our SEM analyses support this idea. Following rupture, the stronger, tougher extensor tendons contained large regions of collagen fibrils that had undergone discrete plasticity ([Fig. 6](#page-6-0), top and middle panels), as observed previously in other positional tendons [\[23,52,53\].](#page-11-0) In contrast, rupture of the weaker flexor tendons did not produce significant levels of plastic damage within collagen fibrils. While a high density of enzymatic crosslinking probably increases the strength of individual collagen fibrils, it may also reduce fibril plasticity, therefore compromising load sharing ability, and hence tendon strength.

Despite being strong and tough, positional extensor tendons rapidly accumulated fatigue damage during cyclic loading in the form of kink bands ([Figs. 9–11](#page-8-0), S4). Kink band formation has been well studied in numerous fields ranging from geology to fibrereinforced composites, and can occur in a variety of anisotropic materials due to compressive stress [\[54–57\].](#page-11-0) Rather than the repeated application of tension, the presence of kink bands suggests that fatigue damage in the extensor tendons was created during the unloading phase of each loading cycle. With the peak strain achieved by the samples continuously increasing during testing <span id="page-10-0"></span>([Fig. 8\)](#page-7-0), but each loading cycle ending at the original zero displacement mark, compressive forces resulting in matrix shearing and fibre buckling could certainly occur. At high magnification, the kink bands were produced by individual, laterally aligned folds in the collagen fibrils [\(Fig. 9](#page-8-0)C), indicating significant disruption to molecular packing at these locations. Had loading continued beyond 1000 cycles, further disruption (Fig. S4) and eventual breakage of fibrils within the kink bands ([Fig. 10](#page-8-0)) would likely have reduced the load bearing capacity of the tendon during elongation, leading to tensile overload and the development of discrete plasticity ([Fig. 11\)](#page-8-0).

In contrast to the rapid development of kink bands in the positional extensor tendons, 1000 cycles of loading caused minimal damage to fibrils in the energy storing flexor tendons, despite flexor tendons being significantly weaker in tension. It is interesting to note that in vivo, collagen in positional tendons appears to be turned over significantly faster than in energy storing tendons [\[26,58\],](#page-11-0) possibly indicating a faster accumulation of fibril damage and subsequent remodeling of the tendon structure. The difference in fatigue response between the two tendons found in this study is consistent with previous results showing that fascicles from bovine digital flexor tendons have a greater fatigue life than those from digital extensor tendons [\[30\].](#page-11-0) Considering the mode of fatigue failure in extensor tendons and the structural differences between flexor and extensor tendons, the fatigue resistance of energy storing tendons may arise from two sources. First, collagen fibrils in the superficial digital flexor tendons examined in this study appeared to be bundled together laterally by filamentous webbing that lacked D-banding ([Fig. 5](#page-5-0)). While the nature of this material was not identified, it appears similar to reported images of type VI collagen [\[59\]](#page-11-0), which is known to exist in tendon [\[60\].](#page-11-0) The presence of a filamentous meshwork connecting fibrils laterally could significantly increase the bending stiffness of collagen fibres, thereby increasing the resistance of individual fibrils to buckling. Second, in a similar fashion but within individual fibrils, the higher intermolecular crosslinking levels present in flexor tendon fibrils would increase fibril bending stiffness by increasing the resistance to molecular shearing. These two mechanisms, acting at different length scales, may account for the reduced susceptibility of energy storing flexor tendons to fatigue damage.

Tendinopathy is a common cause of disability in developed countries [\[61–64\]](#page-11-0). There is good evidence to support that tendinopathy develops as the result of repetitive mechanical stress [\[65–67\]](#page-11-0), as has been anecdotally discussed for many years, hence terms like ''jumpers knee" and ''tennis elbow". While mechanically triggered, predisposition to tendinopathy may be genetically determined [\[68–71\]](#page-11-0). It is possible that energy storing tendons in certain individuals do not possess the fibril-level structural architectures necessary to adequately sustain repeated loading at high stress. Interestingly, features similar to the kink bands observed in this study have recently been reported in tendinopathic human Achilles tendons [\[72\].](#page-11-0) Although several studies have shown that physical training can alter the structure of tendons, with an average collagen half-life of nearly 200 years in energy storing tendons any remodeling that occurs would appear to be very gradual [\[26\].](#page-11-0) Further, mechanical loading alone may not be capable of stimulating the conversion to a more fatigue-appropriate structure. Preliminary results from our laboratory indicate that the structures of energy storing and positional tendons begin to diverge, at least in cattle, during fetal development in the absence of differences in mechanical loading [\[73\].](#page-11-0) Understanding the development of these two classes of tendon in greater detail could aid in our understanding of why certain tissues in certain individuals are sensitive to mechanical injury. It would also be of great benefit to the field of tissue engineering, the optimization of surgical graft selection, and the design of injury prevention therapies.

In conclusion, positional and energy storing tendons have significantly different collagen fibril architectures. These differences lead to significant differences in tensile strength and toughness, and susceptibility to fibril-level fatigue damage during cyclic loading. It is possible that optimization for strength and fatigue resistance in fibrillar collagen may be mutually exclusive, where high strength can only be gained at the expense of fatigue resistance, and vice versa. Understanding the development of these structural differences, and how they vary between individuals may help in understanding the development of repetitive stress injuries, choosing replacement tissues, and designing novel therapies.

# Acknowledgements

This work was supported by a grant to SPV from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC). NCC is grateful for the support from NSERC in the form of an Undergraduate Student Research Award. TWH acknowledges funding support from the Government of Nova Scotia. For our use of SEM and DSC, we acknowledge the support of the Canada Foundation for Innovation, the Atlantic Innovation Fund, and other partners which fund the Facilities for Materials Characterization, managed by the Institute for Research in Materials, Dalhousie University.

#### Appendix A. Supplementary data

Supplementary data associated with this article can be found, in the online version, at [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.actbio.2016.06.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.actbio.2016.06.017) [017.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.actbio.2016.06.017)

# References

- [1] [N.S. Kalson, Y. Lu, S.H. Taylor, T. Starborg, D.F. Holmes, K.E. Kadler, A structure](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0005)[based extracellular matrix expansion mechanism of fibrous tissue growth,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0005) [eLife 4 \(2015\) e05958.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0005)
- [2] [J.P.R.O. Orgel, T.C. Irving, A. Miller, T.J. Wess, Microfibrillar structure of type I](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0010) [collagen in situ, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 103 \(2006\) 9001–9005.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0010)
- [3] [D.R. Eyre, J.-J. Wu, Collagen cross-links, Top. Curr. Chem. 247 \(2005\) 207–229](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0015).
- [4] [R.C. Haut, The effect of a lathyritic diet on the sensitivity of tendon to strain](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0020) [rate, J. Biomech. Eng. 107 \(1985\) 166.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0020)
- [5] [P. Hansen, T. Hassenkam, R.B. Svensson, P. Aagaard, T. Trappe, B.T. Haraldsson,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0025) [M. Kjaer, P. Magnusson, Glutaraldehyde cross-linking of tendon—mechanical](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0025) [effects at the level of the tendon fascicle and fibril, Connect Tissue Res. 50](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0025) [\(2009\) 211–222](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0025).
- [6] [C.A. Miles, M. Ghelashvili, Polymer-in-a-box mechanism for the thermal](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0030) [stabilization of collagen molecules in fibers, Biophys. J. 76 \(1999\) 3243–3252](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0030).
- [7] [C.A. Miles, N.C. Avery, V.V. Rodin, A.J. Bailey, The increase in denaturation](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0035) [temperature following cross-linking of collagen is caused by dehydration of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0035) [the fibres, J. Mol. Biol. 346 \(2005\) 551–556](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0035).
- [8] [T.L. Willett, R.S. Labow, N.C. Avery, J.M. Lee, Increased proteolysis of collagen in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0040) [an in vitro tensile overload tendon model, Ann. Biomed. Eng. 35 \(2007\) 1961–](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0040) [1972.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0040)
- [9] [A.P. Rumian, A.L. Wallace, H.L. Birch, Tendons and ligaments are anatomically](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0045) [distinct but overlap in molecular and morphological features—a comparative](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0045) [study in an ovine model, J. Orthop. Res. 25 \(2007\) 458–464.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0045)
- [10] [D. Amiel, C. Frank, F. Harwood, J. Fronek, W. Akeson, Tendons and ligaments: a](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0050) [morphological and biochemical comparison, J. Orthop. Res. 1 \(1984\) 257–265](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0050).
- [11] [J. Kastelic, A. Galeski, E. Baer, The multicomposite structure of tendon, Connect](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0055) [Tissue Res. 6 \(1978\) 11–23.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0055)
- [12] [R.B. Svensson, T. Hassenkam, P. Hansen, M. Kjaer, S.P. Magnusson, Tensile force](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0060) [transmission in human patellar tendon fascicles is not mediated by](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0060) [glycosaminoglycans, Connect Tissue Res. 52 \(2011\) 415–421.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0060)
- [13] [H.R.C. Screen, J.C. Shelton, V.H. Chhaya, M.V. Kayser, D.L. Bader, D.A. Lee, The](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0065) [influence of noncollagenous matrix components on the micromechanical](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0065) [environment of tendon fascicles, Ann. Biomed. Eng. 33 \(2005\) 1090–1099](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0065).
- [14] [G. Fessel, J.G. Snedeker, Evidence against proteoglycan mediated collagen fibril](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0070) [load transmission and dynamic viscoelasticity in tendon, Matrix Biol. 28](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0070) [\(2009\) 503–510.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0070)
- [15] [S. Torp, E. Baer, B. Friedman, Effects of age and of mechanical deformation on](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0075) [the ultrastructure of tendon, Colston Papers 26 \(1975\) 223–250.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0075)
- [16] [T.M. Grant, C. Yapp, Q. Chen, J.T. Czernuszka, M.S. Thompson, The mechanical,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0080) [structural, and compositional changes of tendon exposed to elastase, Ann.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0080) [Biomed. Eng. 43 \(2015\) 2477–2486](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0080).
- [17] [J. Kastelic, E. Baer, Deformation in tendon collagen, Symp. Soc. Exp. Biol. 34](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0085) [\(1980\) 397.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0085)

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>[18] [G. Fessel, Y. Li, V. Diederich, M. Guizar-Sicairos, P. Schneider, D.R. Sell, V.M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0090) [Monnier, J.G. Snedeker, Advanced glycation end-products reduce collagen](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0090) [molecular sliding to affect collagen fibril damage mechanisms but not](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0090) [stiffness, PLoS One 9 \(2014\) e110948](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0090).
- [19] [H.B. Sun, N. Andarawis-Puri, Y. Li, D.T. Fung, J.Y. Lee, V.M. Wang, J. Basta-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0095)[Pljakic, D.J. Leong, J.B. Sereysky, S.J. Ros, R.A. Klug, J. Braman, M.B. Schaffler, K.J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0095) [Jepsen, E.L. Flatow, Cycle-dependent matrix remodeling gene expression](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0095) [response in fatigue-loaded rat patellar tendons, J. Orthop. Res. 28 \(2010\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0095) [1380–1386](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0095).
- [20] [D.T. Fung, J.B. Sereysky, J. Basta-Pljakic, D.M. Laudier, R. Huq, K.J. Jepsen, M.B.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0100) [Schaffler, E.L. Flatow, Second harmonic generation imaging and fourier](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0100) [transform spectral analysis reveal damage in fatigue-loaded tendons, Ann.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0100) [Biomed. Eng. 38 \(2010\) 1741–1751.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0100)
- [21] [B.K. Connizzo, J.J. Sarver, L. Han, L.J. Soslowsky, In situ fibril stretch and sliding](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0105) [is location-dependent in mouse supraspinatus tendons, J. Biomech. 47 \(2014\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0105) [3794–3798](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0105).
- [22] [K.S. Miller, B.K. Connizzo, E. Feeney, L.J. Soslowsky, Characterizing local](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0110) [collagen fiber re-alignment and crimp behavior throughout mechanical testing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0110) [in a mature mouse supraspinatus tendon model, J. Biomech. 45 \(2012\) 2061–](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0110) [2065](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0110).
- [23] [S.P. Veres, J.M. Harrison, J.M. Lee, Repeated subrupture overload causes](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0115) [progression of nanoscaled discrete plasticity damage in tendon collagen fibrils,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0115) [J. Orthop. Res. 31 \(2012\) 731–737.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0115)
- [24] [E.L. Batson, R.J. Paramour, T.J. Smith, H.L. Birch, J.C. Patterson-Kane, A.E.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0120) [Goodship, Are the material properties and matrix composition of equine flexor](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0120) [and extensor tendons determined by their functions?, Equine Vet J. 35 \(2003\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0120) [314–318.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0120)
- [25] [H.L. Birch, Tendon matrix composition and turnover in relation to functional](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0125) [requirements, Int. J. Exp. Pathol. 88 \(2007\) 241–248.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0125)
- [26] [C.T. Thorpe, I. Streeter, G.L. Pinchbeck, A.E. Goodship, P.D. Clegg, H.L. Birch,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0130) [Aspartic acid racemization and collagen degradation markers reveal an](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0130) [accumulation of damage in tendon collagen that is enhanced with aging, J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0130) [Biol. Chem. 285 \(2010\) 15674–15681](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0130).
- [27] [C.T. Thorpe, C.P. Udeze, H.L. Birch, P.D. Clegg, H.R.C. Screen, Specialization of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0135) [tendon mechanical properties results from interfascicular differences, J. R. Soc.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0135) [Interface 9 \(2012\) 3108–3117](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0135).
- [28] [C.T. Thorpe, C. Klemt, G.P. Riley, H.L. Birch, P.D. Clegg, H.R.C. Screen, Helical](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0140) [sub-structures in energy-storing tendons provide a possible mechanism for](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0140) [efficient energy storage and return, Acta Biomater. 9 \(2013\) 7948–7956](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0140).
- [29] [R.F. Ker, R. Alexander, M.B. Bennett, Why are mammalian tendons so thick?, J](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0145) [Zool. 216 \(1988\) 309–324](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0145).
- [30] [J.H. Shepherd, K. Legerlotz, T. Demirci, C. Klemt, G.P. Riley, H.R.C. Screen,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0150) [Functionally distinct tendon fascicles exhibit different creep and stress](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0150) [relaxation behaviour, Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. H 228 \(2014\) 49–59.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0150)
- [31] [J.M. Lee, C.A. Pereira, D. Abdulla, W.A. Naimark, I. Crawford, A multi-sample](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0155) [denaturation temperature tester for collagenous biomaterials, Med. Eng. Phys.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0155) [17 \(1995\) 115–121.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0155)
- [32] [S.P. Veres, J.M. Harrison, J.M. Lee, Cross-link stabilization does not affect the](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0160) [response of collagen molecules, fibrils, or tendons to tensile overload, J.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0160) [Orthop. Res. 31 \(2013\) 1907–1913](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0160).
- [33] [I.G. Aldous, S.P. Veres, A. Jahangir, J.M. Lee, Differences in collagen cross](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0165)[linking between the four valves of the bovine heart: a possible role in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0165) [adaptation to mechanical fatigue, Am. J. Physiol. Heart Circ. Physiol. 296](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0165) [\(2009\) H1898–H1906](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0165).
- [34] [S.M. Wells, S.L. Adamson, B.L. Langille, J.M. Lee, Thermomechanical analysis of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0170) [collagen crosslinking in the developing ovine thoracic aorta, Biorheology 35](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0170) [\(1998\) 399–414](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0170).
- [35] [A.J. Bailey, Intermediate labile intermolecular crosslinks in collagen fibres,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0175) [Biochim. Biophys. Acta 160 \(1968\) 447–453](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0175).
- [36] [N.C. Avery, A.J. Bailey, Restraining cross-links responsible for the mechanical](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0180) [properties of collagen fibers: natural and artificial, Collagen \(2008\) 81–110.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0180)
- [37] [P.R. Stephens, D.M. Nunamaker, D.M. Butterweck, Application of a Hall-effect](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0185) [transducer for measurement of tendon strains in horses, Am. J. Vet. Res. 50](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0185) [\(1989\) 1089–1095.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0185)
- [38] [N.J. Dimery, R. Alexander, R.F. Ker, Elastic extension of leg tendons in the](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0190) [locomotion of horses \(Equus caballus\), J. Zool. 210 \(1986\) 415–425.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0190)
- [39] [A.A. Biewener, Muscle-tendon stresses and elastic energy storage during](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0195) [locomotion in the horse, Comp. Biochem. Physiol. B: Biochem. Mol. Biol. 120](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0195) [\(1998\) 73–87](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0195).
- [40] [J.C. Patterson-Kane, D.A. Parry, H.L. Birch, A.E. Goodship, E.C. Firth, An age](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0200)[related study of morphology and cross-link composition of collagen fibrils in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0200) [the digital flexor tendons of young thoroughbred horses, Connect Tissue Res.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0200) [36 \(1997\) 253–260.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0200)
- [41] [M. Le Lous, J.C. Allain, L. Cohen-Solal, P. Maroteaux, The rate of collagen](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0205) [maturation in rat and human skin, Connect Tissue Res. 9 \(1982\) 253–262.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0205)
- [42] [A.J. Bailey, R.G. Paul, L. Knott, Mechanisms of maturation and ageing of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0210) [collagen, Mech. Ageing Dev. 106 \(1998\) 1–56](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0210).
- [43] [M. Le Lous, L. Cohen-Solal, J.C. Allain, J. Bonaventure, P. Maroteaux, Age related](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0215) [evolution of stable collagen reticulation in human skin, Connect Tissue Res. 13](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0215) [\(1985\) 145–155](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0215).
- [44] [W.A. Naimark, S.D. Waldman, R.J. Anderson, B. Suzuki, C.A. Pereira, J.M. Lee,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0220) [Thermomechanical analysis of collagen crosslinking in the developing lamb](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0220) [pericardium, Biorheology 35 \(1998\) 1–16](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0220).
- [45] [E.P. Brennan-Pierce, I. MacAskill, R.B. Price, J.M. Lee, Riboflavin-sensitized](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0225) [photo-crosslinking of collagen using a dental curing light, Biomed. Mater. Eng.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0225) [24 \(2014\) 1659–1671](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0225).

- [46] [A.J. Bailey, D. Lister, Thermally labile cross-links in native collagen, Nature 220](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0230) [\(1968\) 280–281.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0230)
- [47] [S.R. Pinnell, G.R. Martin, The cross-linking of collagen and elastin: enzymatic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0235) [conversion of lysine in peptide linkage to alpha-aminoadipic-delta](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0235)[semialdehyde \(allysine\) by an extract from bone, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0235) [61 \(1968\) 708–716.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0235)
- [48] [R. Puxkandl, I. Zizak, O. Paris, J. Keckes, W. Tesch, S. Bernstorff, P. Purslow, P.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0240) [Fratzl, Viscoelastic properties of collagen: synchrotron radiation investigations](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0240) [and structural model, Philos. Trans. R. Soc. London, Ser. B 357 \(2002\) 191–197.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0240)
- [49] [A. Brüel, G. Ortoft, H. Oxlund, Inhibition of cross-links in collagen is associated](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0245) [with reduced stiffness of the aorta in young rats, Atherosclerosis 140 \(1998\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0245) [135–145.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0245)
- [50] [H. Oxlund, M. Barckman, G. Ortoft, T.T. Andreassen, Reduced concentrations of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0250) [collagen cross-links are associated with reduced strength of bone, Bone 17](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0250) [\(1995\) 365S–371S.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0250)
- [51] [P. Hansen, B.T. Haraldsson, P. Aagaard, V. Kovanen, N.C. Avery, K. Qvortrup, J.O.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0255) [Larsen, M. Krogsgaard, M. Kjaer, S.P. Magnusson, Lower strength of the human](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0255) [posterior patellar tendon seems unrelated to mature collagen cross-linking](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0255) [and fibril morphology, J. Appl. Physiol. 108 \(2010\) 47–52](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0255).
- [52] [S.P. Veres, J.M. Harrison, J.M. Lee, Mechanically overloading collagen fibrils](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0260) [uncoils collagen molecules, placing them in a stable, denatured state, Matrix](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0260) [Biol. 33 \(2014\) 54–59](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0260).
- [53] [S.P. Veres, J.M. Lee, Designed to fail: a novel mode of collagen fibril disruption](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0265) [and its relevance to tissue toughness, Biophys. J. 102 \(2012\) 2876–2884.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0265)
- [54] [M.A. Wadee, G.W. Hunt, M.A. Peletier, Kink band instability in layered](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0270) [structures, J. Mech. Phys. Solids 52 \(2004\) 1071–1091](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0270).
- [55] [R.T. Faill, Kink-band folding, Valley and Ridge Province, Pennsylvania, Geol.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0275) [Soc. Am. Bull. 84 \(1973\) 1289–1314.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0275)
- [56] [T.J. Vogler, S. Kyriakides, On the initiation and growth of kink bands in fiber](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0280) [composites: Part I. experiments, Int. J. Solids Struct. 38 \(2001\) 2639–2651](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0280).
- [57] [P.M. Moran, X.H. Liu, C.F. Shih, Kink band formation and band broadening in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0285) [fiber composites under compressive loading, Acta Metall. Mater. 43 \(1995\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0285) [2943–2958](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0285).
- [58] [H.L. Birch, S. Worboys, S. Eissa, B. Jackson, S. Strassburg, P.D. Clegg, Matrix](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0290) [metabolism rate differs in functionally distinct tendons, Matrix Biol. 27 \(2008\)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0290) [182–189.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0290)
- [59] [D.R. Keene, E. Engvall, R.W. Glanville, Ultrastructure of type VI collagen in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0295) [human skin and cartilage suggests an anchoring function for this filamentous](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0295) [network, J. Cell Biol. 107 \(1988\) 1995–2006.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0295)
- [60] [A.D. Waggett, J.R. Ralphs, A.P. Kwan, D. Woodnutt, M. Benjamin,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0300) [Characterization of collagens and proteoglycans at the insertion of the](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0300) [human Achilles tendon, Matrix Biol. 16 \(1998\) 457–470.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0300)
- [61] [C. Littlewood, S. May, S. Walters, Epidemiology of rotator cuff tendinopathy: a](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0305) [systematic review, Shoulder Elbow 5 \(2013\) 256–265.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0305)
- [62] [T.L. Sanders, H. Maradit Kremers, A.J. Bryan, J.E. Ransom, J. Smith, B.F. Morrey,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0310) [The epidemiology and health care burden of tennis elbow: a population-based](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0310) [study, Am. J. Sports Med. 43 \(2015\) 1066–1071.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0310)
- [63] [J. Zwerver, S.W. Bredeweg, I. van den Akker-Scheek, Prevalence of Jumper's](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0315) [knee among nonelite athletes from different sports: a cross-sectional survey,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0315) [Am. J. Sports Med. 39 \(2011\) 1984–1988](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0315).
- [64] [S. de Jonge, C. van den Berg, R.J. de Vos, H.J.L. van der Heide, A. Weir, J.A.N.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0320) [Verhaar, S.M.A. Bierma-Zeinstra, J.L. Tol, Incidence of midportion Achilles](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0320) [tendinopathy in the general population, Br. J. Sports Med. 45 \(2011\) 1026–](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0320) [1028](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0320).
- [65] [U.M. Kujala, S. Sarna, J. Kaprio, Cumulative incidence of achilles tendon](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0325) [rupture and tendinopathy in male former elite athletes, Clin. J. Sport Med. 15](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0325) [\(2005\) 133–135.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0325)
- [66] [O.B. Lian, L. Engebretsen, R. Bahr, Prevalence of jumper's knee among elite](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0330) [athletes from different sports: a cross-sectional study, Am. J. Sports Med. 33](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0330) [\(2005\) 561–567.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0330)
- [67] [J. Toppi, J. Fairley, F.M. Cicuttini, J. Cook, S.R. Davis, R.J. Bell, F. Hanna, Y. Wang,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0335) [Factors associated with magnetic resonance imaging defined patellar](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0335) [tendinopathy in community-based middle-aged women: a prospective](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0335) [cohort study, BMC Musculoskelet. Disord. 16 \(2015\) 184.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0335)
- [68] [R.Z. Tashjian, J.M. Farnham, F.S. Albright, Evidence for an inherited](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0340) [predisposition contributing to the risk for rotator cuff disease, J. Bone Joint](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0340) [Surg. Am. 91 \(2009\) 1136–1142.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0340)
- [69] [P. Harvie, S.J. Ostlere, J. Teh, Genetic influences in the aetiology of tears of the](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0345) [rotator cuff, J. Bone Joint Surg. Bm. 86-B \(2004\) 696–700](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0345).
- [70] [G.G. Mokone, M.P. Schwellnus, T.D. Noakes, M. Collins, The COL5A1 gene and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0350) [Achilles tendon pathology, Scand. J. Med. Sci. Sports 16 \(2006\) 19–26.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0350)
- [71] [G.G. Mokone, M. Gajjar, A.V. September, The guanine-thymine dinucleotide](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0355) [repeat polymorphism within the tenascin-C gene is associated with Achilles](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0355) [tendon injuries, Am. J. Sports Med. 33 \(2005\) 1016–1021](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0355).
- [72] [J. Pingel, Y. Lu, T. Starborg, U. Fredberg, H. Langberg, A. Nedergaard, M. Weis, D.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0360) [Eyre, M. Kjaer, K.E. Kadler, 3-D ultrastructure and collagen composition of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0360) [healthy and overloaded human tendon: evidence of tenocyte and matrix](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0360) [buckling, J. Anat. 224 \(2014\) 548–555.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0360)
- [73] [S. Sparavalo, C.A.M. Bray, T.M. Brock-Fisher, N.M. Easton, C.A. Guinard, S.M.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0365) [Wells, J.M. Lee, S.P. Veres, Structural differences between distinct tendon types](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0365) [arise during fetal development, in: Biomedical Engineering Society, Library of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0365) [Annual Meeting Abstracts, 2015.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S1742-7061(16)30294-X/h0365)