**www.small-methods.com Editor's Choice**

# **High-Throughput Generation of 3D Graphene Metamaterials and Property Quantification Using Machine Learning**

*Zhenze Yang and Markus J. Buehler\**

**3D graphene assemblies are proposed as solutions to meet the goal toward efficient utilization of 2D graphene sheets, showing excellent performances in applications such as mechanical support, energy storage, and electrochemical catalysis. However, given the diversity and complexity of possible graphene 3D structures, there does not yet exist a systematic approach that can generate target 3D shapes and also, evaluate their performance. Here high-throughput data generation is combined with artificial intelligence approaches to realize rapid structure formation and property quantification of 3D graphene foams with mathematically controlled topologies, driven by molecular dynamics simulations. More than 4000 different foam structures are created, which feature diverse topologies that contain potential pathways for small molecules and auxetic structures with negative Poisson's ratio. Empowered by machine learning (ML) algorithms including graph neural networks, not only global properties such as elastic moduli, but also local behaviors such as atomic stress can be predicted and optimized based on their atomic structure, bypassing expensive atomistic simulations. The key findings of the research reported in this paper include a highthroughput virtual framework of generating diverse 3D graphene assemblies with mechanical performances quantification, and highly efficient methods of evaluating physical properties based on ML.**

Z. Yang, M. J. Buehler Laboratory for Atomistic and Molecular Mechanics (LAMM) Massachusetts Institute of Technology Cambridge, MA 02139, USA E-mail: mbuehler@mit.edu Z. Yang

Department of Materials Science and Engineering Massachusetts Institute of Technology Cambridge, MA 02139, USA

M. J. Buehler Center for Computational Science and Engineering Schwarzman College of Computing Massachusetts Institute of Technology Cambridge, MA 02139, USA

M. J. Buehler Center for Materials Science and Engineering Cambridge, MA 02139, USA

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smtd.202200537.

© 2022 The Authors. Small Methods published by Wiley-VCH GmbH. This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs License, which permits use and distribution in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited, the use is non-commercial and no modifications or adaptations are made.

**DOI: 10.1002/smtd.202200537**

# **1. Introduction**

Graphene, a single-layer 2D sheet of carbon atoms, has emerged as a superior material and massive breakthroughs have been witnessed in recent decades based on its exceptional and diverse functionalities, covering mechanical,[1,2] electronic,[3,4] and optical applications.[5] However, 2D graphene flakes and many other 2D materials have a propensity for "face-to-face" stacking and aggregation because of the strong interlayer van der Waal forces, which dramatically limit the performances of the materials in practical applications.[6,7] Therefore, to address the stacking issue and take maximum advantage of graphene's excellent properties, massive efforts have been exerted to synthesize and study 3D graphene assemblies such as graphene aerogel,[8] graphenebased nanocomposites,[9,10] and graphene foams.[11]

In laboratories, 3D graphene assemblies can be synthesized using diverse approaches including self-assembly

methods induced by hydrothermal[12] or chemical reduction[13] and template-directed approach, which utilizes templates such as nickel foams for graphene growth.[11] In particular, template-directed approaches can generate graphene foams with controlled topologies based on the template which can be utilized to investigate various interesting structures. For instance, graphene gyroid lattices that have excellent mechanical and optical properties have been successfully synthesized in several earlier studies.[14,15] The synthesized assemblies inherit the superior properties of graphene and exhibit structural and functional diversity compared to the delicate 2D crystals. As a result, the 3D graphene foams have shown a wide range of applications including electromagnetic inference shielding,[16] gas sensing,[17] energy conversion,[18] and mechanical supporting.[19] Simulation tools have also been leveraged to synthesize 3D graphene foams in silico and further investigate their thermal and mechanical properties.[20–22] However, none of those works generate target shapes of 3D graphene assemblies in an automatic and high-throughput way so that diverse structures can be investigated and further optimized for specific target applications. Here we utilize atomistic molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to perform high-throughput structure generation of 3D

graphene foams with topologies described by mathematical formulas. The automatic algorithm enables us to create precisely controlled topologies with physical structural defects and further evaluate their performances. With the generated structures and corresponding properties, we first compare five different classical machine learning (ML) algorithms to select the best model for global property predictions using geometric coefficients as the input. Furthermore, a graph neural network (GNN) model which is based on a so-called principal neighborhood aggregation (PNA) mechanism[23] are implemented to predict local atomic stress distributions of diverse graphene foam under both tension and compression tests. The approach has been utilized in our previous work for structural defects to atomic properties translation.[24] The combined ML and deep learning (DL) approaches allow us to probe the design space with high efficiency compared to expensive atomistic simulations.

The advent of ML and DL has shaped our way of understanding, discovering and designing materials. The interdisciplinary researches span multiple scales,[25–27] diverse materials,[28–32] and different properties.[33–35] To train an ML or DL model, data are centric in terms of both quantity and quality. To automate the generation and screening of the data, experiments and simulations are often carried out in a so-called highthroughput way which allows parallel production of large arrays of materials and measurements to accelerate design and discovery processes. The high-throughput approaches have been applied broadly to biology, materials science, chemistry and proven successful in massive tasks such as drug discovery,[36] catalyst screening,[37] and DNA sequencing.[38] With combined power of high-throughput approaches and ML, materials development today is vastly facilitated and new knowledge is harvested along the way.

Among all exciting directions of materials development, mechanical metamaterials have earned increasing attention over the decade due to their novel design principles leveraging hierarchical architecture and multiscale engineering. The strategy which only manipulates materials structure rather than composition brings us into unprecedented regions in which superior performances are witnessed including ultrahigh energy dissipation, negative Poisson' s ratio and excellent resilience.[39,40] In this work, we generate porous graphene metamaterials based on a particular type of foam structures known as triply periodic minimal surface (TPMS), which possess fascinating mathematically controlled topologies. The TPMS structures are surfaces that locally minimize surface area such that the mean curvature at each point is zero, which allows the structure to be lightweight and maintain functional integrity at the same time.[41] Due to its minimal surface area, a TPMS structure is energetically favorable to exist as the formation surface energy is minimized. Therefore, TPMS structures are widely seen in natural materials such as butterfly wings[42] and beetle forewings,[43] serving as excellent examples to provide a variety of functions including mechanical supporting, thermal isolation, and optical transmission. Related materials are also seen in artificial systems including zeolite crystals[44] and self-assembled polymers.[45–47] However, there are massive possible geometries to be explored within the family and their mechanical responses related to elasticity, yielding, and energy dissipation remain elusive. Therefore, it is important and intriguing to explore the design principles and develop an efficient tool for property quantification for those 3D foam structures, which are realized by combining virtual high-throughput data generation and ML in this work.

In summary, we propose a high-throughput framework that can virtually generate graphene foams and evaluate their properties in a fast, automatic and systematic way. The graphene foam dataset we create by applying the framework significantly enriches the family of TPMS-based structures and shows interesting geometries such as foams containing channels for selective transport of small molecules and auxetic materials with unusual negative Poisson's ratio. Those structures, given their interesting properties, can potentially be further synthesized for real applications using experimental methods such as template-based approaches. In addition, we quantify the distinct mechanical performances of those generated foam structures using MD simulations which can be used as guidance for experimental comparison and design. Based on the property quantification, ML and DL models enable virtual fast screening given specific design purposes before immersed into expensive and time-consuming experimental synthesis and testing. Moreover, the proposed framework is not just limited to the 4000+ foam structures we generate but can be applied to other surfaces given their target formulas and other 2D materials such as nitrides and MXenes.

# **2. Results**

# **2.1. High-Throughput Data Generation**

To generate the graphene metamaterials dataset, we start from a series of surface formulas that control the foam topologies mathematically. Six basis set functions in the form of trigonometric functions are superimposed to describe a family of TPMS-like surfaces (**Figure 1**). The coefficients of the superposition which can be denoted as a vector [*a*1, *a*2, *a*3, *a*4, *a*5, *a*6] vary from −1 to 1 to form diverse families of graphene foam. Each foam is within a periodic unit cell of 30 Å × 30 Å × 30 Å. Details about the selection of surface formulas are discussed in the Experimental Section (see Surface Formula of Graphene Foams). With the target topology, a high-throughput framework is developed to generate graphene foam structures following six steps (Figure 1): 1) random initialization, 2) triangularization to create triangular tessellation, 3) Voronoi patterning to create hexagonal tessellation, 4) relaxation using MD simulations, 5) screening based on relaxed structures, and 6) property measurement using non-equilibrium MD (NEMD) simulations. The similar procedure has been commonly utilized in the literature to create curved surfaces of graphene.[22,48,49] Figure S1 of the Supporting Information shows three examples of the structure evolution of graphene foams during the procedure.

In random initialization, the number of atoms supposed to be in the unit cell is calculated first. The calculation is based on the surface area of each foam structure (see "Random Initialization" in the Experimental Section). Once the number of carbon atoms is obtained, the atoms are randomly distributed onto the target surface to create the initial configuration (Figure 1).

**Figure 1.** Overview of the workflow. The workflow reported in this work mainly consists of two parts: one is high-throughput data generation (green block), the other is AI-based property quantification (yellow block). The topologies of porous graphene foams are determined by a series of surface formulas (red block). Based on the surface formulas, structural data are generated in a high-throughput way following the steps: 1) random initialization, 2) triangularization to create triangular tessellation, 3) Voronoi patterning to create hexagonal tessellation, 4) relaxation using MD simulations, 5) screening based on relaxed structures, and 6) property measurement using NEMD simulations. With the generated dataset, both classic ML algorithms and DL approaches are implemented to predict global (e.g., moduli, strength) and local properties (e.g., atomic stress) respectively.

Triangularization is then performed using a Lennard–Jones (LJ) potential to spread atoms across the surface. The triangularization operation is minimizing the energy of the whole system by performing gradient-based optimization algorithms (see "Triangularization" in the Experimental Section). The reason why an LJ potential is used first instead of AIREBO[50,51] interatomic potential for graphene is that LJ potential is computationally cheap, which leads to fast equilibrium and the equilibrium tessellation of LJ potential is triangular which can be easily transformed to hexagonal patterns as seen in graphene-based materials. After the 1st triangularization operation, the distribution of mean interatomic bond lengths for all graphene foams is displayed in Figure S2a of the Supporting Information. Although bond lengths are mostly close to the target length (≈2.46 Å), there are still surface structures too densely (the mean bond length is too small) or loosely tessellated (the mean bond length is too large). Therefore, the number of atoms is rescaled based on the mean bond length obtained after the 1st triangularization; and the triangularization is then carried out again (see "Triangularization" in the Experimental Section). As shown in Figure S2a of the Supporting Information, the mean bond length is much closer to the target after the 2nd triangularization. After two-time triangularization, the surface is tessellated with particles in the triangular pattern. The transformation to hexagonal tessellation is then realized using Voronoi patterning which is a same process of generating the Voronoi diagram based on the particles in the triangular pattern (see "Voronoi Patterning" in the Experimental Section). The patterning process can directly lead to structural defects commonly seen in

graphene-based materials such as 5–7 ring dislocations as the local density of particles varies across the surface due to the curvature after the triangularization.

After the first three steps including random initialization, triangularization, and Voronoi patterning, an initial guess of a graphene foam structure is generated. However, it is not guaranteed that the generated structure is stable. Even if it is stable, whether the foam maintains the correct geometry as the target is not ensured. To select the foam structures which meet those criteria, we run MD simulations to relax the foam and screen the structure after relaxation. During the relaxation process, the particles of the foam structure are no longer constrained on the surface and high energy regions are removed to form more physical structures. The details of the relaxation using MD simulations are included in the Experimental Section (see Relaxation and Screening). The relaxation together with the screening process removes unphysical regions in the structures and tests their thermal stability and deviation from target surfaces at room temperature. The process provides basic analysis of the synthesizability or stability of graphene foams in real experiments. With the template-directed methods which can control the foam structures, it is promising to bring the hypothetical foams into reality. Once the structures are relaxed, we screen the whole dataset by examining the deviation of each foam from the target and the bond orders of carbon atoms. A foam is removed from the dataset if the deviation with respect to the target surface formula is larger than a threshold (≈0.3) or the percentage of carbon atoms with correct bond order is lower than a critical value (>90%) (see "Relaxation and Screening" in the Experimental Section). Based

www.small-methods.com

on those two criteria, the final dataset after screening ends up with 4427 different graphene foams.

With relaxed and screened foam structures, the mechanical behaviors are investigated under uniaxial tension and compression tests along the *z* direction. NEMD simulations are performed to compress or stretch the foam and relevant data including stress–strain response and atomic stress field are collected (see "NEMD Simulations for Mechanical Tests" in the Experimental Section). More specifically, the stress–strain response is collected over the entire deformation process with the absolute strain varying from 0% to 80% while the atomic stress field is a sampling average calculated at a fixed absolute strain of 4%.

#### 2.2. Dataset Statistics

In this section, features and statistics of the generated graphene foam dataset are discussed in detail. Figure 2a displays six example structures of graphene metamaterials selected from the dataset. From left to right, there are more and more nonzero basis set functions describing the surfaces, which lead to higher structural complexity. In order to form those 3D graphene foams, topological defects are essential to introduce all different curvatures into the structure. Figure 2b reveals typical defects in the generated graphene foams such as 5-7 ring dislocation, vacancy, and adatom, which are all common and physical defects seen in graphene-based materials.<sup>[52,53]</sup> We further calculate the defect concentration for all graphene foams. The calculation is based on the number of hexagonal rings and all other particles not in the hexagonal rings are regarded as defects. The defect concentration is always below 25% and the mean concentration for 4427 data is 13.2% (Figure 2c). There are no ultrahigh defective foams, which prove that the screening process works well.

The mechanical performances of foam structures in the dataset are investigated using NEMD simulations. An example of stress-strain responses in uniaxial tension and compression test along the z direction is shown in Figure 2d. The example foam behaves like a linear elastic brittle material during the tensile test with a critical strain at ≈12%. During the compression test, a typical three-stage stress-strain curve of a cellular solid is witnessed during which the linear elastic region is first observed, followed by a plateau region due to the plastic deformation and then the densification region as the density of the structure skyrockets (Figure 2d). Based on the stress-strain responses (see "NEMD Simulations for Mechanical Tests" in the Experimental Section), we collect six global properties including the tensile modulus (*E*), tensile strength ( $\sigma_T$ ), toughness ( $U_{\rm T}$ ), compressive modulus (K), plateau stress ( $\sigma_{\rm pl}$ ), and energy absorption  $(E_a)$ . The statistics of those properties are plotted with respect to the mass density  $(\rho)$  of each foam. All six global properties generally increase as the density increases (Figure 2e). In addition, it is noticeable that there are data points with close-to-zero properties in the scatter plot. The reason is that some surfaces do not span the whole unit cell along the loading direction, thus resulting in the close-to-zero mechanical response under the deformation.

Within the dataset, there are foam structures which can provide interesting functions. For instance, some foams possess

negative Poisson's ratio (v) during the compression. We show two examples of foams, which contract along x ( $v_{xz}$  < 0) or y  $(\nu_{xz} < 0)$  directions, respectively, when compressed along z direction (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The cause of the unusual behaviors is the instability occurring during the compression as massive buckling events are seen during the process (Figure S3a, Supporting Information). The mechanism has been revealed in the elastic planar case of auxetic structures which contain a similar pattern of voids compared to the foam structures reported here.<sup>[54]</sup> The evolution over different compressive strains (Figure S3b, Supporting Information) shows that the Poisson's ratio transforms from positive to negative values during the deformation which has also been reported in the previous work.<sup>[54]</sup> Both foams reach Poisson's ratios around -0.3 to -0.2 at the absolute compressive strain of 40%. Besides mechanical functions, the graphene foams can also serve for other purposes. For instance, graphene and graphenebased membranes have been identified as promising nanofilters for water desalination given their light weights and high strength.<sup>[55,56]</sup> We can also find graphene foams containing diagonal nanochannels in the dataset, which can possibly be utilized for transporting molecules. As Figure S4 of the Supporting Information displays, the diameter of channels within those foams can vary across the space. The left foam contains a channel with a relatively uniform diameter while the channel of the middle foam is large at the corner and narrows down at the center. By contrast, the right foam has a channel that is large around the center and gets narrow at the corner. The varying channel sizes make the foams potential candidates for more complicated selective transport of small molecules.

With the data including structures and properties from MD simulations, classical ML algorithms and DL models can be trained to make fast predictions on both global and local properties given the atomic structures. The MD simulations are regarded as the ground truth for training as the methodologies have been widely and deeply used to study mechanical properties of graphene foams including TPMS-based structures. [21,22,48,49,57,58] More importantly, the simulation results can reproduce different behaviors observed in real experiments including scaling law of mechanical properties, [22] strain-stress response under cyclic loading, [59] high strength insensitive with grain boundaries, [60] and ductile fracture. [61] We here compare our simulation results with data from previous works<sup>[21,22]</sup> in which scaling laws of mechanical properties from experiments can be replicated (Table S1, Supporting Information). The mechanical properties of gyroid structures at different sizes are utilized for the benchmark. As the table shows, the simulation approaches used in this work produce similar results as compared to earlier works. We hence believe that it should show good agreements with experimental observation as well. Therefore, we believe that MD simulations can help reveal possible deformation mechanism in experiments and the ML models which are trained on the MD data, as a result, can serve as an accurate predictive tool.

## 2.3. ML for Global Property Quantification

With the generated dataset, ML models are trained to predict global properties based on the atomic structures. As the atomic

23669608, 2022, 9, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smtd.202200537 by Massachusetts Institute of Technolo, Wiley Online Library on [24/04/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 2.** Graphene metamaterials dataset. a) Example structures of graphene foams within the dataset. The vectors are coefficients of superpositions. b) Defects examples in the generate structures including 5–7 ring dislocations, vacancies, and adatoms, which are commonly seen in graphene-based materials. c) Distribution of defect concentration considering all data. d) Stress–strain curve of one example data (diamond surface) for both uniaxial tension and compression tests along the *z* direction. e) Data statistics of all global properties including tensile modulus (*E*), tensile strength (*σ*T), toughness (*U*T), compressive modulus (*K*), plateau stress (*σ*pl), and energy absorption (*E*a). The properties are plotted again density (*ρ*) and red dots are tension data while blue dots are compression data. All six global properties generally increase as *ρ* increases.

structure can be described by the six superposition coefficients from *a*1 to *a*6, classic ML algorithms are utilized to take the coefficients as the input features and predict each individual global property separately (**Figure 3**a). Given the simplicity of input and output, there is no need to apply DL models which may even cause overfitting issues that can ruin models' performances. Five commonly used regression algorithms including linear regression (LIR), k-nearest neighbor regressor (KNR), support vector regressor (SVR), artificial neural network (ANN), and random forest (RF) are tested for model selection. In order to facilitate a direct comparison of these different algorithms, we optimize the hyperparameters of each model using a grid search along with the cross validation before comparing their performances (see "Hyperparameter Optimization of ML

**Figure 3.** Property quantification using ML. a) Prediction of global properties using classic ML algorithms. Input of ML models is six coefficients of superposition and output is the six target global properties. b) Algorithm comparison on tensile modulus prediction. Five ML models are utilized for model selection including LIR, KNR, SVR, ANN, and RF. RF outperform all other four models given the lowest mean error. c) Performances of six global property predictions using RF. d) Schematic of local property prediction using GNN model. The initial configurations of the graphene foams before deformation are input to the model as a graph with each node representing a carbon atom and each edge being the covalent bond. The output is also a graph with each node feature being the atomic stress (*σzz*) at an absolute strain of 4%. e) Performances of atomic stress predictions for both tensile (red) and compression tests (blue). f) Visualization of predicted atomic stress versus the ground truth of two different randomly picked graphene foams for both tensile and compressive stress fields.

Models" in the Experimental Section). The performances of five optimized models are evaluated on tensile modulus predictions as shown in Figure 3b. Among all five algorithms, RF displays the best performance with the lowest mean error. Therefore, we utilize the RF model to predict the rest of global properties.

To train and evaluate the ML model, the total 4427 graphene foams are split into 70% training set, 20% test set, and 10% validation set. Figure 3c shows the correlation between the predicted values of the RF model and actual values for all test data. The correlation coefficient *R* is higher than 0.8 for most of global properties. Given the deviation of the final foam structures from the target surfaces and the limited information in the input, the model already achieves an acceptable accuracy. Among all the global properties, the model's performance on toughness prediction is the worst. One possible explanation is that the toughness is less sensitive to the variation of density which can be predicted with a high accuracy (*R* ≈ 0.97) by the model. The evidence is shown in Figure 2e: all other properties show a similar distribution with respect to the density which is in the shape of a slim island with a hump except the toughness. In addition, we also tested a GNN model (see Section 2.4) on global property predictions. The input to the GNN models includes spatial information of all carbon atoms and the output is obtained from a readout fully connected neural network after the graph convolutional layers. Even with more input information, there is only slight increase of accuracy using the GNN model. Therefore, we believe that classical ML algorithms are good enough for global property predictions.

To better interpret the classical ML algorithms, we utilize Shapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) to analyze the impacts of input features on the predictions. We examine the RF model on predicting the six global properties (Figure S5, Supporting Information). Given all six properties, *a*1 is the most dominate input feature in influencing the property predictions as its corresponding basis set function is the only first-order trigonometric function in the expansion (see "Surface Formula of Graphene Foams" in the Experimental Section). And the impact of *a*1 is so dominant that the dots shown in Figure S5 of the Supporting Information are forming discrete clusters which correspond to discrete values of *a*1. There are three clusters because the positive and negative values are equivalent (−1 is same as 1 and −0.5 is same as 0.5) for a dominate factor. In terms of the rest of input features, *a*4 is the second most dominate factor given its second highest impact in five out of six properties. However, the spreads of the dots for different input features except *a*<sup>1</sup> indicate the coupled effects of these geometrical factors to the properties. Moreover, their effects mainly emerge to play a major role in property predictions when *a*<sup>1</sup> is 0.

### **2.4. DL for Local Atomic Stress Prediction**

Besides global properties, local mechanical behaviors are also essential to the performances of graphene foams we generate. Therefore, we utilize a more advanced DL approach to predict local atomic stress of a foam under certain mechanical test using its initial atomic coordinates as the input. The DL approach, more specifically, a GNN was developed in our previous work, which builds the linkage between structural defects and atomic properties in crystalline solids.[24] We here utilize the same GNN model to predict atomic stresses (*σzz*) of graphene foams under deformation. The target stress field data are collected in both uniaxial tension and compression tests at an absolute strain of 4% (see "NEMD Simulations for Mechanical Tests" in the Experimental Section). In terms of data representation, each graphene foam is represented as a graph (Figure 3d) in which one node corresponds to an atom with the node features being its spatial coordinates. The edge is the covalent bond, showing the connectivity of neighboring atoms with a cutoff distance (2.13 Å). The graph describing the initial atomic structure before the mechanical test is used as the input to train the GNN model (Figure 3d). During the training of GNN, messages are generated based on node information and passed across the edges to update node features toward the node labels. More details about the model architecture and training procedure are included in the Experimental Section (see GNN Model for Atomic Stress Predictions).

After training, the GNN model is able to bypass atomistic simulations with vastly reduced computational cost. The performance of the model is again evaluated by comparing the predictions with the ground truth (Figure 3e). The stress at all atoms in all test foams is plotted in the scatter plot. For both tensile and compressive cases, the GNN model accurately predicts the atomic stress under certain deformation given the initial structural information of the graphene foams. The correlation coefficients *R* reach 0.912 and 0.847, respectively. Two examples of stress field visualization are given in Figure 3f, which further prove the high performance of the GNN model as the predicted field data show the similar stress patterns as the ground truth. The results reveal the power and efficiency of the DL approach, which can possibly serve as an alternative to the traditional modeling approach in predicting local behaviors of graphene foams given certain situations.

## **2.5. Size Effect**

For nanoporous structures, the size or the scale strongly affects the performance of the materials. Therefore, in this section, we examine the size effect by varying the length of the unit cell from 30 to 100 Å (**Figure 4**a). Three foam structures with different surface formulas are picked with the geometrical density (GD) ranging from low to high for investigation (Figure 4b; see "Size Effect" in the Experimental Section). The GD here refers to the density that attributes to the shape of the surface instead of the unit cell size. As the structural defects play an essential role in forming curved surfaces and determining the materials performance, we first study the relation between the defect concentration and the unit cell size. For all three foams, the defect concentration decreases when the unit cell length increases and becomes stable at large lengths (Figure 4c). The high defect concentration at the small size attributes to comparable local curve lengths to the chemical bond length, leading to sharp transitions at the curved surface. At relatively large sizes, the transition is smoother, thus the defect concentration becoming stable. Furthermore, a foam structure with higher GD generally has a higher defect concentration. The reason is that a more compact foam can have more curved regions, which require more defects to compensate for the curvature.

In addition, the size effect of cellular foam structures expressing mechanical properties as a function of density is commonly described by a scaling power law in the form of[41]

$$\theta_{\rm f} = C\theta_{\rm s}\rho_{\rm r}^{\alpha} \tag{1}$$

where *θ*f is the mechanical property of the foam and *θ*s is the corresponding property of the constituent solid, *ρ*r is the relative density which is equal to *ρ*/*ρ*s where *ρ*s is the density of the solid and *α* is the power of scaling law. A simplified formula regarding the relation between *θ*f and the density *ρ* can be denoted as

$$\theta_{\rm f} = A \rho^{\alpha} \tag{2}$$

where *A* accounts for all parameters related to geometry and properties of solids. We here show the scaling law of all six global properties we collect from NEMD simulations (Figure 4d). One slight change compared to the former parts is that the toughness *U*T and energy absorption *E*a here are all properties per unit volume. We take logarithm of both sides of Equation (2) and fit a linear relation between the logarithmic properties and density. As the plots show, the values of *α* regarding the relation between the tensile modulus and density are between 1.0 and 2.0 which is well-known for cellular foams.[41] For other mechanical properties, the power ranges from 1.0 to 3.0 depending on the foam shapes and the property category. By comparing foams with different GDs, the scaling law seems relatively insensitive to the GD as *α* does not change much for different foams and there is no monotonic relation between *α* and GD. In addition, the value of *α* is strongly property dependent as a higher *α* of one property does not necessarily leads to higher *α*s of other properties.

# **3. Conclusions**

In this work, we generate more than 4000 graphene foams with diverse structures controlled by mathematical formulas using the high-throughput data generation technique. Mechanical performances including both global properties such as moduli and local behaviors including atomic stress are quantified and collected to train ML algorithms and DL models for fast predictions. Besides mechanical responses, other properties such as thermal and electric conductivities are also important and interesting to investigate given the fascinating electronic behaviors of 2D graphene sheets. The detailed calculation is left for future works, but the defect concentration shown by this work can already provide some insights as those properties

**Figure 4.** Size effect. a) Example of graphene foam (low GD) unit cells with different lengths. b) The foam structures selected for examining size effect with different GDs. GD refers to geometric density to differentiate from the density that varies due to different unit cell sizes. c) The relation between the defect concentration with respect to the unit cell length. As unit cell length increases, the defect concentration decreases and tends to converge at high unit cell length. d) Scaling law of different global properties at different sizes. The larger unit cell size leads to lower mass density of the graphene foam. Therefore, the eight dots in each line correspond to unit cell sizes equal 100, 90, 80, 70, 60, 50, 40, 30 Å. All variables in the curves are plotted in the logarithmic scale considering power scaling law. The linear curves are utilized to fit the relation between logarithmic density and global properties.

www.small-methods.com

are strongly affected by the structural defects.<sup>[20,62]</sup> In terms of scaling law, it follows the principle known as "the smaller, the stronger" as a smaller unit cell has a higher density. Interestingly, the principle usually applies as there are less defects at the smaller scale. However, the generated graphene foam structures with smaller sizes in this work contain higher concentration of defects (Figure 4), which should lead to weaker foams. Nevertheless, the principle still holds as the density effect dominates. The extrapolation of the observed scaling law allows us to predict properties at much larger scales given that the size of experimentally synthesized graphene foams can vary across a wide range.<sup>[6]</sup>

The current study focuses on addressing a forward problem which is to build the linkage between the structure of graphene foams and their mechanical performances. Combining the forward approach with optimization algorithms, an inverse problem can also be solved by optimizing the superposition coefficients, which determines the surface shape. However, one specific issue for this particular case is to ensure both the stability and accuracy of the final solution as the relaxed structure might deviate from the target surface or possess incorrect geometries. In addition, the GNN model used in this work is developed to translate existing structural defects to atomic properties at small deformation without accounting for large structural variation. Future work can aim at improving the DL approach to tackle with large structural evolution by combining the GNN model with some sequential models.

In summary, our work proposes a systematic and automatic framework of generating and evaluating 3D graphene assemblies with precisely controlled topologies, providing fundamental insights of mechanical performances for a wide range of structures. The parallel structure generation algorithm can be extended beyond the TPMS-like families to other curved shapes for different design purposes. The present research can offer guidance and reference for experimental studies on synthesized graphene foams by combing predictions from ML models with the scaling law. Both high-throughput virtual screening and in silico inverse design can be realized based on the proposed approach to reduce the cycle-time of structure optimization for different design purposes. Experimental methods such as the template-directed approach can possibly be utilized to synthesize the proposed designs to validate their respective performances.

## 4. Experimental Section

Surface Formula of Graphene Foams: The structures of graphene foams generated in this work are based on the TPMS family. The simplest and most used method to produce minimal surface-like topologies is using a level-set approximation equation which is derived from the Fourier series<sup>[41,63]</sup>

$$\sum_{k} F(k) \cos \left( 2\pi k \cdot r - \alpha(k) \right) = 0 \tag{3}$$

where k is the reciprocal vector,  $\alpha(k)$  is the phase shift, and F(k) is the structural factor.

Based on different crystal symmetries, the equation can be simplified to a combination of trigonometric functions. There are more than 100 known TPMS and massive possible hybridization of those minimal surfaces.<sup>[64]</sup> In this work, the similar protocol was utilized to create

TPMS-like graphene foams based on hybridization of the six basis set functions, which are terms in the expansion of Equation (3). The general form of the surface formula is denoted as below

$$\sum_{i=0}^{6} a_i f_i = 0 \tag{4}$$

where  $a_i$  are coefficients of linear combinations or superposition coefficients between -1 and 1. In this work, to simplify,  $a_i$  is allowed to be selected from (-1, -0.5, 0, 0.5, 1). The six basis set functions  $f_i$ , which are in form of cosine and sine functions are shown below

$$f_1(x,y,z) = \cos\left(\frac{2\pi x}{I}\right) + \cos\left(\frac{2\pi y}{I}\right) + \cos\left(\frac{2\pi z}{I}\right)$$
 (5)

$$f_2(x,y,z) = \sin\left(\frac{2\pi x}{l}\right) \sin\left(\frac{2\pi y}{l}\right) + \sin\left(\frac{2\pi y}{l}\right) \sin\left(\frac{2\pi z}{l}\right) + \sin\left(\frac{2\pi z}{l}\right) \sin\left(\frac{2\pi z}{l}\right)$$
(6)

$$f_{3}(x,y,z) = \cos\left(\frac{2\pi x}{I}\right)\cos\left(\frac{2\pi y}{I}\right) + \cos\left(\frac{2\pi y}{I}\right)\cos\left(\frac{2\pi z}{I}\right) + \cos\left(\frac{2\pi z}{I}\right)\cos\left(\frac{2\pi z}{I}\right)$$

$$+\cos\left(\frac{2\pi z}{I}\right)\cos\left(\frac{2\pi x}{I}\right)$$
(7)

$$f_4(x,y,z) = \sin\left(\frac{2\pi x}{l}\right)\cos\left(\frac{2\pi y}{l}\right) + \sin\left(\frac{2\pi y}{l}\right)\cos\left(\frac{2\pi z}{l}\right) + \sin\left(\frac{2\pi z}{l}\right)\cos\left(\frac{2\pi z}{l}\right)$$
(8)

$$f_{5}(x,y,z) = \sin\left(\frac{2\pi x}{l}\right) \sin\left(\frac{2\pi y}{l}\right) \cos\left(\frac{2\pi z}{l}\right) + \sin\left(\frac{2\pi y}{l}\right) \sin\left(\frac{2\pi z}{l}\right) \cos\left(\frac{2\pi x}{l}\right) + \sin\left(\frac{2\pi z}{l}\right) \sin\left(\frac{2\pi x}{l}\right) \cos\left(\frac{2\pi y}{l}\right)$$

$$(9)$$

$$f_6(x,y,z) = \cos\left(\frac{2\pi x}{I}\right)\cos\left(\frac{2\pi y}{I}\right)\cos\left(\frac{2\pi z}{I}\right)$$
 (10)

where I is the size of the unit cell and x, y, z are coordinates of points on the surface. Since the surface formula consists of trigonometric functions, the generated structures are intrinsically periodic which shows that level-set approximation equations are useful to create and describe periodic structures. The basis set functions were selected to have the same periodicity with different crystal symmetries. [65] Given the number of basis set functions and superposition coefficients, the total number of possible surfaces are 7448 excluding the dependent combinations of coefficients.

In this study, the periods of generated TPMS-like surfaces were set to the length l of unit cells along all directions. By introducing a new coefficient n which is an integer to replace  $\frac{1}{l}$  with  $\frac{n}{l}$  in the trigonometric functions, the periodicity of the foam structures can be tuned. The parameter n corresponds to the times of repetition of the surface units in the cell. A larger n leads to stronger spatial confinement and larger material density. As the material density increases, the mechanical performances promote as well, following "the smaller, the stronger" principle. Furthermore, by assigning different n before x, y, and z, it is possible to design anisotropic foam structures with programmable mechanical properties along different directions.

Random Initialization: Before distributing atoms onto the target surface, the number of atoms, or in other words, the density of the

www.small-methods.com

structure needs to be evaluated. The surface area numerically based on surface integral was calculated. Let z = f(x, y) be a differentiable surface, then the surface area is given by

$$A = \iint \sqrt{1 + f_x^2(x, y) + f_y^2(x, y)} \, dx \, dy$$
 (11)

where  $f_x(x, y)$  and  $f_y(x, y)$  are partial derivatives of function f with respect to x and y. The whole unit cell was divided into grids with a size of  $0.1 \times 0.1 \times 0.1$  Å and then the derivates at each grid were calculated to calculate local area. The area of each element was finally integrated together to get the surface area. The number of atoms was then evaluated given the target bond length.

Triangularization: The triangularization process is to quickly distribute the carbon atoms across the surface to form a triangular tessellation of the surface, which can be further patterned to a hexagonal tessellation as widely seen in graphene-based materials. The pairwise LJ potential was utilized for triangularization whose expression is well-known as below

$$V(r) = 4\varepsilon \left[ \left( \frac{\sigma}{r} \right)^{12} - \left( \frac{\sigma}{r} \right)^{6} \right]$$
 (12)

where  $\varepsilon$  determines the depth of potential well,  $\emph{r}$  is the distance between two particles, and  $2^{\frac{1}{6}}\sigma$  is the distance at which the potential is at minimum.  $2^{\overline{6}}\sigma$  is denoted as  $r_{\rm m}$  for annotation. In the triangular tessellation, the target bond length  $r_{\rm t}$  is  $\sqrt{3}$  times of the carboncarbon bond length in hexagonal tessellation, which is known to be 1.42 Å. Therefore, the target bond length  $r_t$  in the triangularization is 2.46 Å. Since the number of particles is calculated based on  $r_t$  and fixed regardless of the parameterization of LJ potential, the mean equilibrium bond length will be around  $r_t$  as long as the triangular tessellation can be realized. Therefore, the only requirement is that  $r_m$  is equal to N times of  $r_t$  so that the particles are in triangular patterns, which are shown as the equation below

$$r_{\rm m} = Nr_{\rm t} \tag{13}$$

where N is a positive integer.  $r_m$  is set here to be  $2r_t$ , which enables acceleration of the tessellation compared to N = 1. More specifically, since the particles are in repulsive region (as the distance between particles is around  $0.5r_{\rm m}$ ) of the LJ potential where there is ultrahigh slope of potential or in other words, extremely large repulsive force, any fluctuation of interatomic distance will lead to the explosion of potential energy. Therefore, the system will fall into equilibrium quickly during the energy minimization. In summary, the final choice of  $\sigma$  is 4.3824 Å and the cutoff distance of the LJ potential is set to 7.5 Å. All the distances were evaluated in three-dimension space instead of the surface.

The triangularization operation and all other MD simulations in this work were performed using Large-scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator (LAMMPS). [66] A Hessian-free truncated Newton (HFTN) algorithm was implemented to perform energy minimization for triangularization. In order to constrain atoms on the target surface during the minimization, the source codes of the MANIFOLD package<sup>[67]</sup> in LAMMPS with the surface formulas were modified. The minimization stopped when the force tolerance was below 10<sup>-16</sup> or the number of iteration or force evaluations was higher than 107. All the visualization was performed using  $\mathsf{OVITO}^{[68]}$  visualization tool and its python interface.

Voronoi Patterning: To transform the triangular tessellation of the surface to hexagonal tessellation for graphene, Voronoi patterning was performed, which generated Voronoi cells from seeds. The seeds were points of triangles after the triangularization and new particles were placed at the vertices of Voronoi cells. The Voronoi diagram was created by finding intersections of perpendicular bisectors to line that connects the seeds. Considering that the tessellation consists of mainly equilateral triangles, new particles were placed at the center of each triangle.

Relaxation and Screening: The relaxation process of foam structures consists of five steps: 1) energy minimization with the surface constraint, 2) energy minimization without the surface constraint, 3) relaxation in NVT ensemble, 4) relaxation in NPT ensemble, and 5) relaxation in NVT ensemble again. The first step is to place atoms back to the target surface as after the Voronoi patterning, the particles are not necessarily on the surface because the patterning is performed in the 3D space instead of on the surface. The HFTN algorithm was again utilized for energy minimization of the first step. The minimization stops until the force tolerance is below  $10^{-12}$  or the number of iteration or force evaluations is higher than 10<sup>5</sup>. The second step is to relax normal-to-surface forces. If the surface is not stable, the new structure after the second step can largely deviate from the target, which will be removed later during the screening. The conjugated gradient algorithm was implemented for energy minimization during the second step with the same convergence criterion as the first step. The third step is to initialize the temperature using Langevin thermostat. The temperature was set to be 10 K in this work. The fourth step is to set the pressure of each foam to be zero with the Berendsen barostat for the mechanical tests. The final or fifth step is to reset the temperature again using Berendsen thermostat to 10 K after zeroing the pressure. AIREBO interatomic potential[50,51] was used for both relaxation and mechanical tests of graphene foams.

In terms of virtual screening after the relaxation, foam structures with large deviation from the target surfaces were first removed. The deviation or error is simply defined as

$$Error = \left| \sum_{i=1}^{6} a_i f_i \right| \tag{14}$$

As the sum is supposed to be 0, the absolute error shows how different the relaxed surface is compared to the target surface. The distribution of the error is shown in Figure S2b of the Supporting Information. A threshold was set to determine the upper limit of the error for those foams that were left in the dataset. The comparison of foams before and after relaxation at different errors is displayed in Figure S2c of the Supporting Information. As the figure shows, when the error is ≈0.1 and 0.3, the foam can still maintain its shape after relaxation and the particles are around the similar positions before and after relaxation. However, when the error is ≈0.5, the particles can move far away from the original positions after relaxation and less overlaps of positions are seen compared to the situations when error is at 0.1 or 0.3. Furthermore, when the error is 1.0, even the shape of surface is completely lost after relaxation. To ensure the surfaces close to targets and reserve the diversity of the dataset at the same time, the threshold of the error was set to be 0.3. Besides the overall topology, the dataset was also screened by checking the bond orders of carbon atoms. Although the global surface topology might be maintained after relaxation, the carbon atoms can be in the wrong local environment. For instance, the carbon atoms can be underbonded or overbonded if the local density of particles is too low or high. The extreme case such as forming a long chain of carbon atoms (bond orders of atoms are 2) is not desirable and physical. Therefore, foam structures with less than 90% of carbon atoms whose bond order is 3 were further removed. After the two screening processes, the final dataset contains 4427 different TPMS-like foam structures.

NEMD Simulations for Mechanical Tests: Both uniaxial tension and compression tests were performed along the z direction using NEMD simulations to investigate the mechanical performances of generated graphene foams. During both tests, the simulation cell was deformed at an absolute strain rate of 4 ns<sup>-1</sup> and the lateral boundaries were fixed using NVT equations of motion. The stress-strain response along the z direction of the entire foam was collected every 5 ps for 2 ns. For the compression test, the simulation might stop early as the densification could lead to extremely high acceleration of some particles, which caused errors in the simulation. To lower the computational cost, the global stress-strain data were not calculated using any averaging method as the

www.small-methods.com

fluctuations of individual atoms already averaged out. However, in terms of local atomic stress fields, the data were collected using a sampling average to obtain an accurate stress value ( $\sigma_{zz}$ ) of each individual atom. More specifically, the stress field was obtained by fixing the simulation cell at an absolute strain of 4% for both compression and tension in NVT ensemble and averaging the atomic stress over 1000 frames during 2 ns. The sampling convergences for both compression and tension data are exhibited in Figure S6 of the Supporting Information. For all data randomly picked, the convergence was realized with 1000 samples.

The global properties were calculated based on the stress–strain response. The moduli E and K were derived based on the slope of linear fitting of the stress–strain curve at the linear elastic region. The  $\sigma_T$  is the maximum stress value during the tensile test and  $\sigma_{\rm pl}$  is the mean stress at the plateau region during the compression. Both  $U_T$  and  $E_a$  were calculated by summing up the area under the stress–strain curve while the densification region was excluded when calculating  $E_a$  ( $|E_{zz}| < 0.5$ ).

Hyperparameter Optimization of ML Models: Hyperparameter optimization was performed for each classic ML algorithm using the grid search before comparing their performances. Grid search is a technique that explores a search space in a discrete grid to find the optimum combination of hyperparameters. Fivefold cross validation was utilized along with the grid search for model selection. The optimization was done using scikit-learn, [69] which is a simple and efficient tool for predictive data analysis. The names and abbreviations of algorithms and functions mentioned below are given by scikit-learn. [69] Different hyperparameters were tuned for different ML algorithms (Figure S7, Supporting Information): for LIR, since the algorithm is relatively simple, no hyperparameters optimization was performed; for KNR, there are three hyperparameters including the number of neighbors (1, 2, 5, 10), the weight function ("uniform" or "distance"), and the algorithm used to compute the nearest neighbors ("auto", "ball\_tree", "kd\_tree", "brute"); for SVR, the tunable hyperparameters are the kernel type ("linear", "poly", "rbf", "sigmoid"), regularization parameter (1, 10, 100, 100), and degree of polynomial function (3, 6, 9, 12); in terms of ANN or multilayer perceptron regressor, the number of hidden layers (1, 2, 3, 4), the dimension of the hidden layers (32, 128) and the L2 regularization parameters (0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1.0) can be tuned; finally, the hyperparameters of RF include the number of estimators (10, 100, 1000, 10 000), the criterion to measure the quality of a split ("mae" or "mse") and the maximum depth (5, 20, 100, 500) of the tree.

The optimum combinations of hyperparameters for different models are listed: for KNR, the number of neighbors is 5, the choice of the algorithm is "brute" and the weight function is "distance"; for SVR, the kernel is "rbf" and the regularization parameter is 1000; for ANN, the number of hidden layers is 4 with a dimension of 128 and the regularization parameter is 0.001; for RF, it ends up with a model containing 10 000 estimators with a depth of 100 using "mae" criterion.

Features Analysis Using SHAP: For interpretation of the results of RF model on predicting the six global properties, SHAP was implemented, which is a widely used game theoretic approach for interpreting predictions.<sup>[70]</sup> The tree explainer was selected given the tree-based model for property predictions.<sup>[71]</sup> The beeswarm plots (Figure S5, Supporting Information) which are 1D scatter plots were generated using the SHAP, displaying how the top features in a dataset impact the model's predictions. Each instance in the dataset is shown by a dot in the beeswarm plot and the x axis of Figure S5 of the Supporting Information is the SHAP value or the Shapley value, which indicates the impact of given certain feature values (normalized for each feature as displayed in the color bar) in comparison to the baseline feature values. The input features were ordered from high impact to low impact from the top to the bottom in beeswarm plots. In order to accelerate the calculation of SHAP values given the large number of estimators and high depth of RF model, an approximate approach was utilized.

GNN Model for Atomic Stress Predictions: The GNN models utilized in this work followed similar architectures as in previous work,<sup>[24]</sup> which is based on the PNA model.<sup>[23]</sup> Compared to other GNN models, the PNA architecture stands out in graph classification tasks due to its utilization of multiple aggregators with degree-scalers. The aggregators

apply the mathematical operation such as summation to the collected messages passed to a node in the graph and the degree-scalers enhance or attenuate the signals based on the connectivity of each node. In this work, four different aggregators denoted as "mean", "maximum", "minimum", and "standard" were selected with the names indicating corresponding mathematical operation.

As for degree-scalers, "identity", "amplification", and "attenuation" are three options which maintain, amplify or attenuate the signals given the nodal degree, respectively. The original pooling layer was removed so that the model can be used for predicting labels of each node.

There are two major hyperparameters in the PNA model, one is the number of hidden layers which determines the depth of the message passing process, the other is the hidden dimension which determines the complexity of the message and nodal information. For the atomic stress prediction for tensile test, the number of hidden layers is 8 and the hidden dimension is 50. For the compression stress, the number of hidden layers is 8 and the hidden dimension is 25.

To train and evaluate the GNN model, 4427 data were split into 70% training set, 20% test set, and 10% validation set. During the training procedure, the loss which is the mean square error between the predicted atomic stress and the ground truth was minimized. The training lasted 500 epochs to ensure convergence for both compressive and tensile cases.

Size Effect: The three foams for investigation of size effect were selected based on their densities (600.2 kg m $^{-3}$  for low density case, 813.6 kg m $^{-3}$  for medium density case, 1021.8 kg m $^{-3}$  for high density case, all the densities were calculated in a unit cell of 30 Å). The corresponding combinations of coefficients are  $\left[-1,0,-\frac{1}{2},0,0,1\right]$ ,  $\left[-\frac{1}{2},-\frac{1}{2},-\frac{1}{2},0,1,\frac{1}{2}\right]$  and  $\left[0,-\frac{1}{2},0,0,1,\frac{1}{2}\right]$  for low, medium, and high

GD cases, respectively. The unit cells with different sizes ranging from 30 to 100 Å were generated using the same procedure proposed in Section 2.1, i.e., high-throughput data generation with different unit cell lengths.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

The authors acknowledge support by the Army Research Office (W911NF1920098) and AFOSR-MURI (FA9550-15-1-0514). The authors acknowledge support from the GoogleCloud platform and MIT Quest for providing computational resources and other support.

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## Data Availability Statement

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

# Keywords

high-throughput generation, machine learning, metamaterials, nanomechanics, simulations

Received: May 2, 2022 Revised: July 7, 2022 Published online: July 29, 2022

- [1] C. Lee, X. Wei, J. W. Kysar, J. Hone, *Science* **2008**, *321*, 385.
- [2] D. G. Papageorgiou, I. A. Kinloch, R. J. Young, *Prog. Mater. Sci.* **2017**, *90*, 75.
- [3] K. S. Novoselov, A. K. Geim, S. V. Morozov, D. Jiang, Y. Zhang, S. V. Dubonos, I. V. Grigorieva, A. A. Firsov, *Science* **2004**, *306*, 666.
- [4] K. S. Novoselov, A. K. Geim, S. V. Morozov, D. Jiang, M. I. Katsnelson, I. V. Grigorieva, S. V. Dubonos, A. A. Firsov, *Nature* **2005**, *438*, 197.
- [5] L. A. Falkovsky, *J. Phys.: Conf. Ser.* **2008**, *129*, 012004.
- [6] Q. Fang, Y. Shen, B. Chen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2015**, *264*, 753.
- [7] Z. Wu, T. Shang, Y. Deng, Y. Tao, Q. H. Yang, *Adv. Sci.* **2020**, *7*, 1903077.
- [8] G. Gorgolis, C. Galiotis, *2D Mater.* **2017**, *4*, 032001.
- [9] A. T. Lawal, *Biosens. Bioelectron.* **2019**, *141*, 111384.
- [10] R. J. Young, I. A. Kinloch, L. Gong, K. S. Novoselov, *Compos. Sci. Technol.* **2012**, *72*, 1459.
- [11] Z. Chen, W. Ren, L. Gao, B. Liu, S. Pei, H. M. Cheng, *Nat. Mater.* **2011**, *10*, 424.
- [12] Y. Xu, K. Sheng, C. Li, G. Shi, *ACS Nano* **2010**, *4*, 4324.
- [13] W. Chen, L. Yan, *Nanoscale* **2011**, *3*, 3132.
- [14] K. Nakanishi, D. Labonte, T. Cebo, V. P. Veigang-Radulescu, Y. Fan, B. Brennan, A. J. Pollard, S. Hofmann, N. A. Fleck, *Acta Mater.* **2020**, *201*, 254.
- [15] X. Xu, C. Guan, L. Xu, Y. H. Tan, D. Zhang, Y. Wang, H. Zhang, D. J. Blackwood, J. Wang, M. Li, J. Ding, *ACS Nano* **2020**, *14*, 937.
- [16] Z. Chen, C. Xu, C. Ma, W. Ren, H. M. Cheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2013**, *25*, 1296.
- [17] F. Yavari, Z. Chen, A. V. Thomas, W. Ren, H.-M. Cheng, N. Koratkar, *Sci. Rep.* **2011**, *1*, 166.
- [18] H. Ren, M. Tang, B. Guan, K. Wang, J. Yang, F. Wang, M. Wang, J. Shan, Z. Chen, D. Wei, H. Peng, Z. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1702590.
- [19] K. M. Yocham, C. Scott, K. Fujimoto, R. Brown, E. Tanasse, J. T. Oxford, T. J. Lujan, D. Estrada, *Adv. Eng. Mater.* **2018**, *20*, 1800166.
- [20] G. S. Jung, J. Yeo, Z. Tian, Z. Qin, M. J. Buehler, *Nanoscale* **2017**, *9*, 13477.
- [21] G. S. Jung, M. J. Buehler, *Nano Lett.* **2018**, *18*, 4845.
- [22] Z. Qin, G. S. Jung, M. J. Kang, M. J. Buehler, *Sci. Adv.* **2017**, *3*, 1601536.
- [23] G. Corso, L. Cavalleri, D. Beaini, P. Liò, P. Veličković, in *Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst*. (Eds: H. Larochelle, M. Ranzato, R. Hadsell, M. F. Balcan, H. Lin), Curran Associates, Inc., Online **2020**, pp. 13260–13271.
- [24] Z. Yang, M. J. Buehler, *submitted* **2022**.
- [25] K. T. Butler, D. W. Davies, H. Cartwright, O. Isayev, A. Walsh, *Nature* **2018**, *559*, 547.
- [26] F. E. Bock, R. C. Aydin, C. J. Cyron, N. Huber, S. R. Kalidindi, B. Klusemann, *Front. Mater.* **2019**, *6*, 110.
- [27] G. C. Y. Peng, M. Alber, A. Buganza Tepole, W. R. Cannon, S. De, S. Dura-Bernal, K. Garikipati, G. Karniadakis, W. W. Lytton, P. Perdikaris, L. Petzold, E. Kuhl, *Arch. Comput. Methods Eng.* **2021**, *28*, 1017.
- [28] G. L. W. Hart, T. Mueller, C. Toher, S. Curtarolo, *Nat. Rev. Mater.* **2021**, *6*, 730.
- [29] C. H. Yu, Z. Qin, F. J. Martin-Martinez, M. J. Buehler, *ACS Nano* **2019**, *13*, 7471.
- [30] Z. Yang, C.-H. Yu, M. J. Buehler, *Sci. Adv.* **2021**, *7*,7416.
- [31] Z. Yang, C.-H. Yu, K. Guo, M. J. Buehler, *J. Mech. Phys. Solids* **2021**, *154*, 104506.
- [32] S. Gong, S. Wang, T. Zhu, X. Chen, Z. Yang, M. J. Buehler, Y. Shao-Horn, J. C. Grossman, *JACS Au* **2021**, *1*, 1904.
- [33] G. Prashun, S. Vladan, S. T. Eric, *Nat. Rev. Mater.* **2017**, *2*, 17053.
- [34] K. T. Schütt, H. Glawe, F. Brockherde, A. Sanna, K. R. Müller, E. K. U. Gross, *Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter Mater. Phys.* **2014**, *89*, 205118.
- [35] K. Guo, Z. Yang, C. H. Yu, M. J. Buehler, *Mater. Horiz.* **2021**, *8*, 1153.

- [36] K. H. Bleicher, H. J. Böhm, K. Müller, A. I. Alanine, *Nat. Rev. Drug Discovery* **2003**, *2*, 369.
- [37] Z. Li, S. Wang, W. S. Chin, L. E. Achenie, H. Xin, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 24131.
- [38] M. Kircher, J. Kelso, *BioEssays* **2010**, *32*, 524.
- [39] K. Bertoldi, V. Vitelli, J. Christensen, M. Van Hecke, *Nat. Rev. Mater.* **2017**, *2*, 17066.
- [40] J. U. Surjadi, L. Gao, H. Du, X. Li, X. Xiong, N. X. Fang, Y. Lu, *Adv. Eng. Mater.* **2019**, *21*, 1800864.
- [41] O. Al-Ketan, R. K. Abu Al-Rub, *Adv. Eng. Mater.* **2019**, *21*, 1900524.
- [42] V. Saranathan, C. O. Osuji, S. G. J. Mochrie, H. Noh, S. Narayanan, A. Sandy, E. R. Dufresne, R. O. Prum, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2010**, *107*, 11676.
- [43] M. H. Bartl, J. W. Galusha, L. R. Richey, J. S. Gardner, J. N. Cha, *Phys. Rev. E: Stat., Nonlinear, Soft Matter Phys.* **2008**, *77*, 2.
- [44] J. Sun, C. Bonneau, Á. Cantín, A. Corma, M. J. Díaz-Cabañas, M. Moliner, D. Zhang, M. Li, X. Zou, *Nature* **2009**, *458*, 1154.
- [45] M. Stefik, S. Guldin, S. Vignolini, U. Wiesner, U. Steiner, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2015**, *44*, 5076.
- [46] Y. Mai, A. Eisenberg, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2012**, *41*, 5969.
- [47] M. C. Orilall, U. Wiesner, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2011**, *40*, 520.
- [48] A. Pedrielli, S. Taioli, G. Garberoglio, N. M. Pugno, *Carbon* **2017**, *111*, 796.
- [49] A. Pedrielli, S. Taioli, G. Garberoglio, N. M. Pugno, *Carbon* **2018**, *132*, 766.
- [50] S. J. Stuart, A. B. Tutein, J. A. Harrison, *J. Chem. Phys.* **2000**, *112*, 6472.
- [51] D. W. Brenner, O. A. Shenderova, J. A. Harrison, S. J. Stuart, B. Ni, S. B. Sinnott, *J. Phys.: Condens. Matter* **2002**, *14*, 783.
- [52] W. Tian, W. Li, W. Yu, X. Liu, *Micromachines* **2017**, *8*, 163.
- [53] T. Xu, L. Sun, in *Defects in Advanced Electronic Materials and Novel Low Dimensional Structures* (Eds: J. Stehr, I. Buyanova, W. Chen), Woodhead publishing, Duxford, United Kingdom **2018**, Ch. 5.
- [54] K. Bertoldi, P. M. Reis, S. Willshaw, T. Mullin, *Adv. Mater.* **2010**, *22*, 361.
- [55] N. Song, X. Gao, Z. Ma, X. Wang, Y. Wei, C. Gao, *Desalination* **2018**, *437*, 59.
- [56] A. Aghigh, V. Alizadeh, H. Y. Wong, M. S. Islam, N. Amin, M. Zaman, *Desalination* **2015**, *365*, 389.
- [57] C. Wang, C. Zhang, S. Chen, *Carbon* **2016**, *109*, 666.
- [58] C. Wang, C. Zhang, S. Chen, *Carbon* **2019**, *148*, 267.
- [59] C. Wang, D. Pan, S. Chen, *Carbon* **2018**, *132*, 641.
- [60] G. Jung, Z. Qin, M. J. Buehler, *Extreme Mech. Lett.* **2015**, *2*, 52.
- [61] D. Pan, C. Wang, T.-C. Wang, Y. Yao, *ACS Nano* **2017**, *11*, 8988.
- [62] F. Banhart, J. Kotakoski, A. V. Krasheninnikov, *ACS Nano* **2011**, *5*, 26.
- [63] P. J. F. Gandy, S. Bardhan, A. L. Mackay, J. Klinowski, *Chem. Phys. Lett.* **2001**, *336*, 187.
- [64] E. A. Lord, A. L. Mackay, *Curr. Sci.* **2003**, *85*, 346.
- [65] M. Wohlgemuth, N. Yufa, J. Hoffman, E. L. Thomas, *Macromolecules* **2001**, *34*, 6083.
- [66] A. P. Thompson, H. M. Aktulga, R. Berger, D. S. Bolintineanu, W. M. Brown, P. S. Crozier, P. J. in't Veld, A. Kohlmeyer, S. G. Moore, T. D. Nguyen, R. Shan, M. J. Stevens, J. Tranchida, C. Trott, S. J. Plimpton, *Comput. Phys. Commun.* **2022**, *271*, 108171.
- [67] S. Paquay, R. Kusters, *Biophys. J.* **2016**, *110*, 1226.
- [68] A. Stukowski, *Modell. Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng.* **2009**, *18*, 015012.
- [69] F. Pedregosa, G. Varoquaux, A. Gramfort, V. Michel, B. Thirion, O. Grisel, M. Blondel, P. Prettenhofer, R. Weiss, V. Dubourg, J. Vanderplas, A. Passos, D. Cournapeau, M. Brucher, M. Perrot, E. Duchesnay, *J. Mach. Learn. Res.* **2011**, *12*, 2825.
- [70] S. M. Lundberg, S.-I. Lee, in *Advanced Neural Information Processing System*, Vol. 30 (Eds: I. Guyon, U. V. Luxburg, S. Bengio, H. Wallach, R. Fergus, S. Vishwanathan, R. Garnett), Curran Associates, Inc, Long Beach **2017**, pp. 4765–4774.
- [71] S. M. Lundberg, G. Erion, H. Chen, A. DeGrave, J. M. Prutkin, B. Nair, R. Katz, J. Himmelfarb, N. Bansal, S.-I. Lee, *Nat. Mach. Intell.* **2020**, *2*, 56.