**[www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

# <span id="page-0-0"></span>**Generative Modeling, Design, and Analysis of Spider Silk Protein Sequences for Enhanced Mechanical Properties**

*Wei Lu, David L. Kaplan, and Markus J. Buehler\**

**Spider silks are remarkable materials characterized by superb mechanical properties such as strength, extensibility, and lightweightedness. Yet, to date, limited models are available to fully explore sequence-property relationships for analysis and design. Here a custom generative large-language model is proposed to enable the design of novel spider silk protein sequences to meet complex combinations of target mechanical properties. The model, pretrained on a large set of protein sequences, is fine-tuned on ≈1,000 major ampullate spidroin (MaSp) sequences for which associated fiber-level mechanical properties exist, to yield an end-to-end forward and inverse generative approach that is aplied in a multi-agent strategy. Performance is assessed through: 1) a novelty analysis and protein type classification for generated spidroin sequences through Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) searches, 2) property evaluation and comparison with similar sequences, 3) comparison of resulting molecular structures, and 4) a detailed sequence motif analyses. This work generates silk sequences with property combinations that do not exist in nature and develops a deeper understanding of the mechanistic roles of sequence patterns in achieving overarching key mechanical properties (elastic modulus (E), strength, toughness, failure strain). The model provides an efficient approach to expand the silkome dataset, facilitating further sequence-structure analyses of silks, and establishes a foundation for synthetic silk design and optimization.**

**1. Introduction**

Many biological materials encountered in nature exhibit complex hierarchical structures and unique combinations of material properties. These systems have inspired scientists in material designs and optimization by understanding their underlying features.[\[1–3\]](#page-12-0) Spider silk is one of the most intriguing biological materials, abundant in nature and this family of protein-based materials has evolved over 300 million years,[\[4–6\]](#page-13-0) and features a complex hierarchical architecture (**Figure [1](#page-1-0)**), ranging from amino acid chains dictated by spidroin sequences, to protein nanocomposites, to silk fibrils, fibers, and webs.[\[1,5,7\]](#page-12-0) Silk nanofibrils are highly oriented along longitudinal axis but less ordered radially, resulting in mechanical anisotropy along both parallel and normal directions of the fiber axis.[\[8\]](#page-13-0) The hierarchical nature contributes to the exceptional mechanical properties of spider silks, including toughness, strength, and extensibility, but still lightweight. These properties arise from the presence of stiff crystalline -sheets in the nanocomposites, providing silk material stiffness and tensile strength, as well as the disordered extensible semi-amorphous phase and weak hydrogen bonds that enhance extensibility.[\[1,4\]](#page-12-0) Some spider silks also exhibit supercontraction properties and can shrink up to 50% of its length when exposed to high humidity[\[9–11\]](#page-13-0) due to the transition from oriented to disorganized silk morphology,[\[12\]](#page-13-0) and this feature is

presumed to play a role in tuning mechanical properties during the silk spinning process.[\[13,14\]](#page-13-0) Furthermore, spider silks are biocompatible and biodegradable.[\[1,15\]](#page-12-0) Consequently, they have gained interest in various fields, including structural engineering[\[16,17\]](#page-13-0) and electronics[\[18,19\]](#page-13-0) due to their mechanical properties, biomedical technologies such as tissue engineering[\[20,21\]](#page-13-0) and drug delivery,[\[22,23\]](#page-13-0) and even in art and music.[\[24,25\]](#page-13-0)

W. Lu, M. J. Buehler Laboratory for Atomistic and Molecular Mechanics (LAMM) Massachusetts Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, MA 02139, USA E-mail: [mbuehler@mit.edu](mailto:mbuehler@mit.edu)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202311324>

© 2023 The Authors. Advanced Functional Materials published by Wiley-VCH GmbH. This is an open access article under the terms of the [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/) License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited and is not used for commercial purposes.

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202311324**

W. Lu, M. J. Buehler Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering Massachusetts Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, MA 02139, USA D. L. Kaplan Department of Biomedical Engineering

Tufts University Medford, MA 02155, USA

M. J. Buehler Center for Computational Science and Engineering Schwarzman College of Computing Massachusetts Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, MA 02139, USA

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Hierarchical structure of silk and the SilkomeGPT modeling approach used, based on a transformer architecture. Panel a: Schematic of hierarchical structure of spider silk, from nanoscale hydron bonded chains to macroscale spider web structures (adapted from[\[7\]](#page-13-0) with permission). Hydrogen-bonded -strands assemble into -sheet nanocrystals, which are embedded in semi-amorphous phases. These nanocrystals unite to compose protein composites, constituting the building blocks of silk fibrils. Bundles of the silk fibrils form the spider fibers, then the macroscale spider webs structures. The protein-level structures are represented by amino acid sequences, and the fiber-level properties are measured in[\[28\]](#page-13-0) and utilized in this work. Panel b: Summary of the autoregressive decoder-only transformer model architecture, with rotary positional embedding. Panel **c**: Overview of modeling approach. A query including the task and relevant context is used to create the responses, with interactions among all elements considered via graph-forming attention mechanisms. Tasks included in this work include the petraining "sequence" task, as well as a "calculate" and a "generate" task. The "calculate" task predicts a set of mechanical properties based on a given sequence, and the "generate" task yields a silk sequence with associated mechanical properties (details see Experimental Section).

In addition, spider silks are multi-functional, with eight main types of silks produced by the corresponding glands, each serving various purposes: 1) Dragline silks form scaffolds that provide structural support for webs; 2) Flagelliform silks are core fibers of capture spirals; 3) Auxiliary spiral silks stabilize and reinforce the overall web structures; 4) Aggregate silks provide sticky aqueous coating for capture spiral; 5) Pyriform silks are used as cement for attachments and joints; 6) Aciniform silks serve the soft inner silks of egg sacs and prey wrapping; 7) Cylindriform (or tubuliform) silk are designed for constructing outer coating of egg sacs.[\[26–29\]](#page-13-0) The spider silk properties are governed by the structure of its main protein building blocks, known as spidroins.[\[28\]](#page-13-0) Each type of silk is primarily composed of a specific spidroin: 1) MaSp (major ampullate spidroins), 2) Flag (flagelliform spidroin), 3) MiSp (minor ampullate spidroins), 4) AgSp (aggregate spidroin), 5) PySp (pyriform spidroin), 6) AcSp (aciniform spidroin), 7) CySp (cylindriform spidroin, also known as tubuliform spidroin).[\[26–29\]](#page-13-0) The diversity and evolution of spidroin sequences and their relationship to silk properties has been explored,[\[28,30\]](#page-13-0) as have the terminal domains,[\[31,32\]](#page-13-0) repetitive motifs and regions,[\[33,34\]](#page-13-0) and modifications and paralogs.[\[35,36\]](#page-13-0) Furthermore, specific functions of different MaSp types have been proposed,[\[28\]](#page-13-0) with MaSp1 contributing to silk strength, MaSp2 enhancing elasticity and supercontraction due to the ratio of amorphous to -sheet regions,[\[37\]](#page-13-0) and MaSp3 demonstrating exceptional toughness.[\[28\]](#page-13-0) Moreover, spidroin proteins consist of repetitive regions flanked by N-termini and C-termini.[\[31,38\]](#page-13-0) These different domains serve distinct functions, yet collectively contribute to the overall properties of spider silks. In particular, the repetitive regions, forming the core modules in the

secondary structures, significantly impact silk mechanical properties, while the N/C-termini influence spidroin's solubility and silk fiber assembly,[\[31,38\]](#page-13-0) thereby connecting spider silk properties across multiple scales. Nevertheless, due to the high diversity and complexity of spider silk and spidroins, the sequence-property relationships of spider silks have not yet been fully understood.

Synthetic design for biomaterials and biostructures is appealing to scientists due to their exceptional properties and unique features. Many approaches have been employed to explore this approach, including experimental and theoretical methods,[\[39–41\]](#page-13-0) genetic engineering and motif assembly,[\[42–44\]](#page-13-0) multiscale simulations,[\[45–47\]](#page-13-0) and additive manufacturing.[\[48–50\]](#page-13-0) Yet, to date, there are limited models available to fully explore sequence-property relationships for analysis and design, especially to achieve novel silk sequences with property combinations that do not exist in nature. In the realm of spider web structures, synthetic webs and web-inspired designs has been explored using deep learning,[\[5,15,51\]](#page-13-0) topology optimization,[\[52,53\]](#page-13-0) additive manufacturing and simulations.[\[45,54,55\]](#page-13-0)

In this paper, we solve this challenge with a custom deep generative model based on a transformer architecture. Deep learning techniques have advanced in prediction and generation tasks across various data types, encompassing natural language data, graphs, and images.[\[56,57\]](#page-13-0) Several deep generative models have been developed for material and mechanical problems,[\[58\]](#page-13-0) including the design of 3D nature-inspired materials,[\[59\]](#page-13-0) including graphene,[\[60\]](#page-13-0) proteins,[\[61,62\]](#page-13-0) other chemicals,[\[63\]](#page-13-0) and the development of a large language model (LLM) for multiple forward and inverse mechanics problems.[\[64\]](#page-13-0) As for spider web-related studies, web properties have been predicted using graph neural networks and GraphPerceiver transformer attention models,[\[51,65,66\]](#page-13-0) and web designs can be generated through diffusion model and autoregressive transformer with different neighborhood representations.[\[5\]](#page-13-0) Research related to silk classification and prediction tools have been implemented to assess properties and design patterns in silk fabrics,[\[67,68\]](#page-13-0) as well as the conformation of silk proteins.[\[69\]](#page-14-0) However, there is limited exploration of generative techniques within the domain of spider silks and their associated protein sequences using deep learning methodologies. Such strategies would more directly allow the creation of novel experimental designs and protocols for future research and design targets. Solving this challenge is the objective of this paper.

Numerous deep learning algorithms[\[57\]](#page-13-0) have been developed for sequence generation, such as Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs), Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), Variational Autoencoders (VAEs), and Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs).[\[70\]](#page-14-0) More recent techniques have emerged with impressive generation capacity. For instance, the diffusion model[\[63,71\]](#page-13-0) introduces Gaussian noise in diffusion process and iteratively reconstructs the output in denoising process[\[71\]](#page-14-0) ; and transformers with attention mechanisms, capture intricate relationships within sequential data or tokens.[\[72\]](#page-14-0) Notable examples include the encoder model BERT[\[73\]](#page-14-0) (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers) and the autoregressive model GPT[\[74–76\]](#page-14-0) (Generative Pre-trained Transformer). These models can be pretrained through Masked Language Models and Left-to-Right Language Models respectively, followed by fine-tuning to enhance model performance. Moreover, each model has variations tailored for specific generation purposes and incorporating unique model features, such as ALBERT,[\[77\]](#page-14-0) ProtBert and ProtBert-BFD; GPT-NeoX[\[75\]](#page-14-0) and GPT-J.[\[78\]](#page-14-0)

Furthermore, the development of the Silkome data collection,[\[28\]](#page-13-0) which compiles spidroin sequences and material properties, serves as a valuable source for training models of spider silk proteins. Silkome collects spidroin data from transcriptome assemblies of 1098 species, with a total of *>*11 000 unique sequences, and includes detailed material testing data of dragline silk properties from 446 species[\[28\]](#page-13-0) (and a total of ≈1000 sequence-property associations). In this work, we take additional steps to refine and prepare the dataset for training, as detailed in Section [4.](#page-11-0) Significant protein motifs that influence the measured silk properties were also studied previously,[\[28\]](#page-13-0) which we utilize to validate the generation capability of our model, as discussed in Section [3.](#page-7-0)

#### **1.1. Motivation for This Study**

Synthetic silk design can have a significant impact regarding material improvement and innovations, biotechnology design, sustainability and cost reduction for economic opportunities, on multiple research areas and industries, including material and structural engineering,[\[40,79,80\]](#page-13-0) tissue engineering,[\[81,82\]](#page-14-0) biomedical applications related to wound healing[\[83,84\]](#page-14-0) and drug delivery,[\[85,86\]](#page-14-0) as well as synthetic meat and other agriculture applications. However, challenges exist in the design of synthetic spider silk domains since there are limited data on spidroin sequences, due to high diversity and complexity of spider silks and spidroins, which constrains the exploration of the intricate relationships between the sequence structures and the resulting functions of spidroin.[\[28\]](#page-13-0) Moreover, although there have been studies exploring synthetic spider silk design through experimental approaches[\[43,87\]](#page-13-0) and genetic engineering and motif assembly.[\[22,42,43\]](#page-13-0) The high costs for synthetic designs to assess properties post synthesis, purification and processing prompt the need for advanced computational modeling methods to be more fully utilized for spider silk protein sequence analysis. Incorporating advanced modeling tools would improve research efficiency compared to current sequencing methods,[\[28,88\]](#page-13-0) as well as enhance design reliability and expand design opportunities. We propose a generative modeling framework that employs an autoregressive transformer to design spider silk protein sequences and to predict their associated fiber-level mechanical properties. The key contributions of this work are outlined below:

- A dataset comprising 1033 protein sequences is constructed, sourcing from the Silkome[\[28\]](#page-13-0) dataset, to develop associations of protein sequences with various properties, including protein-level information (e.g., family, genus, species, sex, etc.) and fiber-level mechanical properties (e.g., toughness, elastic modulus (E), etc.). For the purpose of this study, we focus on the protein sequences and their related mechanical properties, but the dataset can be used for a variety of downstream applications.
- A sequence-based generative modeling method is developed, leveraging advanced deep learning language modeling techniques based on attention mechanisms, to enhance the efficiency of synthetic spider silk protein design. The model is

<span id="page-3-0"></span>evaluated for self-consistency using forward and inverse task agentic modeling, and is proficient in generating novel and reliable spider silk protein sequences. The model provides a cost-effective means to expand the spidroin dataset, facilitating further study of sequence-property relationships of spider silks.

- We find that the method attains reasonable predictive accuracy for mechanical properties of spider silks. The framework hence lays a robust foundation for various downstream tasks including *de novo* spidroin generation, synthetic silk design, and silk property optimization. Implementation of the model allows design space exploration for spider silk materials, synthetic silk design with lower impact on environments, and property optimization for silk-based products.
- The model can be expanded to predict other multilevel properties related to spider silk and proteins, and can be adapted for other different protein or biomaterials featuring similar hierarchical structures, to target various design purposes across multiple domains.

The paper is organized as follows. We first introduce spider silk and spidroin, as well as the motivation of this work (this section). We then analyze the generation and property prediction results from generative modeling, including a thorough assessment of the prediction performance and the self-consistency of the model. The third section summarizes the work, key insights including mechanisms, and concludes the impact and outlines potential future tasks. The last section discusses the methodology implemented, including the dataset and model construction, as well as the modeling and training details.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

In this work, we explore the relationship between the protein sequences of spider silks and their corresponding fiber-level properties, such as toughness and strength. Our model is able to generate novel spidroin sequences and predict their associated properties. The 8D mechanical property sets for generation inputs are defined in "Dataset Construction" in Section [4,](#page-11-0) Experimental Section. To assess the generative capability of the generative model, we analyze the performance through three varied mechanical property sets employed as target input conditions. In addition, five property sets are selected to generate novel spidroin sequences, to evaluate the model's self-consistency through novelty check, classification of generated protein sequences, protein property assessment, comparison of folding configurations, and motif analysis. The exact target property values for these selected sets listed in **Table [1](#page-4-0)**.

The three initial property sets for prediction performance analysis are randomly selected to encompass a range of property values. The five property sets for self-consistency analysis are selected following specific selection criteria, to encompass common, rare, and non-existent mechanical behavior of spider silks, to rigorously assess the adaptability and reliability of our method. The selection process is detailed as follows. As indicated in red in **Figure [2](#page-5-0)**, we focus on elastic modulus and toughness value pairs for the selection: Set 1 with common elastic modulus and toughness pair (0.2 and 0.25), set 2 and 3 with existing but rare value pairs with relatively high E (0.75 and 0.55) and high toughness (0.45 and 1.00) respectively, set 4 with non-existent pair and with elevated property values of elastic modulus and toughness (0.8 and 0.9). Set 5 instead centered around common strength and toughness value pairs (0.27 and 0.24). For the remaining property values, the medians are employed.

#### **2.1. Prediction Performance**

**Figure [3](#page-6-0)** provides a comparison between the predicted property values (in red) of the generated novel sequences and the corresponding ground targeted properties (in blue). The bar plots represent the results obtained from the generation with three distinct input property sets (details in Table [1\)](#page-4-0). For each generation, the results with the highest R2 values are selected. The three example tests demonstrate a reasonable model prediction performance, with R2 values of 0.8764, 0.8369, and 0.6889, respectively. The output R2 values, obtained from three randomly selected input property sets, demonstrate reasonable correlations between the predicted and target property values, signifying the potential utility of the model for designing spider silk sequences with desired properties. These results further show the flexibility of the model to adapt to various property requirements, suggesting that it can be utilized for a wide range of spider silk designs with different mechanical property constraints.

**Figure [4](#page-7-0)** presents a similar plot comparing the predicted and ground targeted properties for the five selected target property values (property details in Table [1\)](#page-4-0). Spidroin sequences are generated and selected (sequences in Table S1, Supporting Information) with best output R2 values of 0.8899, 0.5640, 0.7167, 0.7843, and 0.7751 for property set 1 to 5 respectively. Reasonable prediction performance is indicated, with an average R2 of 0.75, and for property sets featuring non-existent values (set 4), a comparable level of performance can be achieved (R2 = 0.7843), which implies that the model can effectively handle scenarios where the target mechanical properties have unique value combinations, and show the reliability of the model for spidroin sequence design with optimal or tailored properties. The comparison for the five selected property sets, with not only common property value combinations but also rare and non-existent ones, demonstrates the robustness and versatility of the model for property prediction performance. Moreover, it is noted that the selected property sets that with common value pairs (set 1 and set 5) tend to yield higher prediction performance, but the property sets containing rare value pairs (set 2 and set 3) exhibit a slightly lower correlation, which suggests that the prediction capability of the model may be more adapt within the common value property combinations, and this understanding can guide the selection of property sets for specific design goals.

#### **2.2. Novelty Assessment and Protein Classification**

While we exclusively selected novel sequences during the generation process when comparing them with the MaSp dataset, it remains essential to assess their novelty and protein classification within the broader set of protein sequence databases. The five novel spider silk sequences generated based on the five target property sets are now analyzed through Basic Local Alignment

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Table 1.** Summary of selected property sets. In this work, each protein-level sequence is paired with eight fiber-level properties for spider silk, including four mechanical properties (toughness, elastic modulus, tensile strength, strain at break), and four corresponding standard deviations derived from measurements. The eight property values are normalized and concatenated in a list for model training and prediction (details in Section [4\)](#page-11-0). Here, three property sets are selected with random but various values, to analyze the forward prediction performance of the model (as specified in Section [2](#page-3-0) and Figure [3\)](#page-6-0). Subsequently, additional five property sets, are meticulously selected (as specified in Section [2](#page-3-0) and Figures [2](#page-5-0) and [4\)](#page-7-0), to generate and analyze the novel spidroin sequences, aims to assess the self-consistency of the model, i.e., its ability to generate sequences that meet the design target.

| purpose                                                                          | set # | property set values                                      | R2     | value selection (see Figure 2)                                                                                                                                                    |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------|----------------------------------------------------------|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| three sets for forward<br>prediction<br>performance<br>assessment                | 1     | [0.600,0.204,0.279,0.043,0.329,0.127,0.502,0.139]        | 0.8764 | To analysis forward prediction<br>performance, the 3 property sets are<br>randomly selected to encompass a<br>range of property values.                                           |
|                                                                                  | 2     | [0.300,0.20,0.2,0.1,0.3,0.1,0.20,0.1]                    | 0.8369 |                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|                                                                                  | 3     | [0.100,0.20,0.2,0.04,0.3,0.1,0.70,0.1]                   | 0.6889 |                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| five sets to generate<br>spidroin sequences,<br>for self-consistency<br>analysis | 1     | [0.250, 0.252, 0.200, 0.151, 0.310, 0.203, 0.293, 0.265] | 0.8899 | Common elastic modulus and<br>toughness value pair (0.2 & 0.25) is<br>selected. Medians are selected for<br>the remaining property values.                                        |
|                                                                                  | 2     | [0.550, 0.252, 0.750, 0.151, 0.310, 0.203, 0.293, 0.265] | 0.5640 | Existing but rare value pair is selected<br>for E and toughness (0.75 & 0.55),<br>where relatively high E value is<br>chosen. Medians are employed for<br>other values.           |
|                                                                                  | 3     | [1.000, 0.252, 0.450, 0.151, 0.200, 0.203, 0.293, 0.265] | 0.7167 | Existing but rare value pair is selected<br>for E and toughness (0.45 & 1.00),<br>where relatively high toughness value<br>is chosen. Medians are employed for<br>other values.   |
|                                                                                  | 4     | [0.900, 0.252, 0.800, 0.151, 0.310, 0.203, 0.293, 0.265] | 0.7843 | Non-existent value pair for E and<br>toughness is selected (0.8 & 0.9),<br>and high property values are chosen.<br>Medians are employed for for the<br>remaining property values. |
|                                                                                  | 5     | [0.240, 0.252, 0.206, 0.151, 0.270, 0.203, 0.293, 0.265] | 0.7751 | Common value pair of strength and<br>toughness (0.27 & 0.24) is selected.<br>Medians are chosen for the<br>remaining property values.                                             |

Search Tool (BLAST) searches. A total of ten similar, existing spider silk sequences are selected based on the analysis, with two for each of the five generated sequences (designated as BLAST 1 and BLAST 2 here). All protein sequences are summarized in Table S1 (Supporting Information), with the sources of ten existing sequences indicated. The selection criteria for similar sequences involve relatively high query cover and percent identity, as well as comparable sequence length when contrasted with the generated novel sequences.

To evaluate novelty, the highest values and the common value ranges for both query cover (QC) and percent identity (id%) are summarized and analyzed in Table S2 (Supporting Information), where QC serves to assess the alignment of sequences, and id% signifies the degree of composition similarity. Sequences exhibiting similarity values below 50% to 60% are considered novel according to established criteria.[\[62,89\]](#page-13-0) The generated sequences are assessed to be novel within the broader protein dataset, with detailed discussions for all five sequences summarized in Table S2 (Supporting Information), which suggests the capability of model in designing sequences with unique properties that either do not exist or have not been observed in nature. Moreover, through sequence comparison for five property sets, most similar existing sequences from BLAST searches are categorized as MaSp, which aligns with the targeted spidroin type. This result indicates that the generative modeling methods are capable of capturing the key characteristics of specific types for spider silk proteins.

#### **2.3. Protein Property Analysis**

Protein properties for five novel spidroin and ten similar searches are compared in Table S3 (Supporting Information) and **Figure [5](#page-8-0)**. Table S3 (Supporting Information) contains the sequence length and other properties, including molecular weight (MW), instability index (II),[\[90\]](#page-14-0) and Isoelectric point (pI), calculated using ProtParam,[\[91\]](#page-14-0) here through an implemented Python tool package.[\[92\]](#page-14-0) The comparison of these properties for each property set is visualized in Figure [5a,](#page-8-0) the amino acid percentage and the secondary structure fraction are compared in Figure [5b,c.](#page-8-0) The secondary structure fraction refers to the ratio of amino acids tend to be in helix (V, I, Y, F, W, L), turn (N, P, G, S) and sheet (E, M, A, L).[\[92\]](#page-14-0) In general, a consistent trend is observed across these property values for the generated sequences and the similar

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Analysis of the MaSp spider silk property data, based on the data originally reported in.[\[28\]](#page-13-0) We depict property distributions as histograms with kernel density estimate (KDE) plots (diagonal), and property correlation in scatter plots (lower region) and KDE plots (upper region), of normalized mechanical properties (right panel) and their standard deviations (left panel). In general, for a total of 1033 data, uniform distributions are observed, and toughness and strength are relatively positively correlated. Five target property sets are selected (as marked in red) to generate novel sequences for further comparison and analysis. We focus on elastic modulus and toughness value pairs: set 1 with common elastic modulus and toughness pair (0.2 and 0.25), set 2 and 3 with existing but rare value pairs with relatively high modulus *E* (0.75 and 0.55) and high toughness (0.45 and 1.00) respectively, set 4 with non-existent pair and with elevated property values for elastic modulus and toughness (0.8 and 0.9). Set 5 centered around common strength and toughness value pairs (0.27 and 0.24). For other remaining property values, the medians are employed. The specific property values for each sets are as follows: set 1: [0.250, 0.252, 0.200, 0.151, 0.310, 0.203, 0.293, 0.265], set 2: [0.550, 0.252, 0.750, 0.151, 0.310, 0.203, 0.293, 0.265], set 3: [1.000, 0.252, 0.450, 0.151, 0.200, 0.203, 0.293, 0.265], set 4: [0.900, 0.252, 0.800, 0.151, 0.310, 0.203, 0.293, 0.265], set 5: [0.240, 0.252, 0.206, 0.151, 0.270, 0.203, 0.293, 0.265]. The 8D property set are defined in Dataset Construction in Section [4,](#page-11-0) and specific values of the property sets are listed in Table [1.](#page-4-0)

existing ones within each property set. Though value variations exist, the choice of existing sequences for comparison from the BLAST searches can potentially influence the nature of the comparison. The consistency implies that the generated sequences exhibit features in their sequence, structure and composition that align with naturally occurring sequences, demonstrating their biological relevance and validity. Additionally, the consistent alignment implies that the model can effectively capture key characteristics and properties of spider silk proteins, thus reinforces the reliability of the modeling approach for novel sequence generation, and its applicability in biomaterial design.

#### **2.4. Molecular Structure Comparison**

To compare the folding configurations, we employed AlphaFold2[\[93\]](#page-14-0) (AF2) to fold the five generated spidroin sequences and one of their related protein search (BLAST 1). The folded configurations are provided in **Figure [6](#page-9-0)**. We note that these folded configurations are only meant as a comparative means to assess relative changes across distinct sequences. This is because AF2 will likely not predict correct in situ structures as seen in a silk fiber; and reflecting this hypothesis, the overall folding performance for spider silk proteins using AF2 yields relatively low pLDDT[\[94,95\]](#page-14-0) (per-residue local distance difference test) scores, ranging from 40 to 60 (values detailed in Table S3, Supporting Information). This might be due to the limited availability of spidroin protein sequences in the training data of AF2. Specifically, the plots of pLDDT per amino acid position sequence (shown in Figure S2, Supporting Information) reveal that more accurate molecular configurations are predicted for the terminal domains of input spidroin sequences, whereas AF2 is less effective when applied to repetitive domains, possibly due to the higher variability and complexity of sequence patterns within these regions.

While noting these limitations we use the structures to explore some molecular insights. We observe similarities comparing the configurations of novel sequences and the BLAST 1 sequences. For example, as shown in Figure [6,](#page-9-0) for property sets 2 to 4, resemblances are observed regarding the alignment of alpha-helices and the overall structure and coils. On the other hand, for property set 1, the overall shapes exhibited less similarity, while the presence of beta-sheets was evident in the folding of both sequences. Moreover, as depicted in Figure S2 (Supporting Information), similar trends in local structural confidence over individual amino acid positions are observed between the

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Comparison of predicted properties and ground truth for the three property sets, achieved using a cycle-consistent generative design approach. Panel (a) shows a schematic flowchart of how the inverse and forward tasks are combined, and panels (b–d) show bar plots provide a comparison between the predicted property values (in red) of the generated novel sequences and the corresponding target properties (in blue). The bar plots are from generation with three different input targeted property sets, with [toughness, standard deviation (SD) of toughness, E, SD of E, strength, SD of strength, strain, SD of strain] equal to [0.600, 0.204, 0.279, 0.043, 0.329, 0.127, 0.502, 0.139], [0.300, 0.20, 0.2, 0.1, 0.3, 0.1, 0.20, 0.1], [0.100, 0.20, 0.2, 0.04, 0.3, 0.1, 0.70, 0.1], respectively. For each generation, the results with the highest R2 values are selected from a set of sampling attempts. The three example tests demonstrate good performance, as indicated by the R2 values: 0.8764, 0.8369, and 0.6889, respectively. The output R2 values, obtained from three randomly selected input property sets, demonstrate moderate correlations between the predicted and target property values, signifying the potential utility of the model for designing spider silk sequences with desired properties. The results also illustrate the flexibility of the model to adapt to various property requirements, suggesting that it can be utilized for a wider range of spider silk designs with different property constraints. The 8D property set are defined in Dataset Construction in Section [4,](#page-11-0) and specific values of the property sets are listed in Table [1.](#page-4-0)

generated sequences and their native counterparts. Thus, the accuracy of AF2 predictions for spider silk folding configurations may not be optimal, the presence of visual similarities between generated and existing sequences implies that our generation model is capable of capturing certain structural features for spider silk protein, and can generate non-existent but valid spidroin sequences. Furthermore, employing the generation method to compare the structural differences can potentially uncover common structural motifs or variations that may influence the silk's mechanical properties. This can enhance the understanding of the structure-property relationship of spider silks, and aid in the design of spider silks with tailored properties.

#### **2.5. Motif Analysis toward Mechanistic Understanding**

Spidroin motifs with evident impact on key mechanical properties are selected based on the insights derived from Table [1](#page-4-0) in the Silkome paper.[\[28\]](#page-13-0) Here we provide a summary of analyzed motifs in Table S4 (Supporting Information), and assume that the specific classification of MaSp type (e.g., MaSp1) spidroin has minimal impact on the motif analysis. **Figure [7](#page-10-0)** depicts the motif analysis for all five property sets, from top to bottom respectively. Figure [7a](#page-10-0) compares the motif counts for generated sequences and their two similar searches (BLAST 1 and 2). A recurring trend of similarity is evident between novel sequences and existing ones across most property sets, particular in sets 1, 3, and 4, which feature common property values and optimized nonexistent values. The generated sequences share common structural motifs with natural spider silk sequences, which verifies their structural validity and biological relevance. However, the congruence is diminished in set 2 for some motifs, while we acknowledge that the choice of BLAST search sequences could influence this comparison.

Furthermore, the consistency of motif impact is investigated and we find that sequences with higher toughness (sets 2, 3, and 4) display a decreased count of the "T\_neg\_1 & 2" motif; whereas, sequences with elevated E values, particularly in set 4, exhibit an increased count of the "E\_pos\_2" motif. Additionally, the KDE plots in Figure [7b,c](#page-10-0) illustrate the relative positioning

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Comparison of predicted values and ground truth for five selected property sets. The bar plots present a comparison between the predicted property values (in red) of the generated novel sequences and the corresponding ground targeted properties (in blue). The generation process selects results based on the best R2 values achieved for each instance (0.8899, 0.5640, 0.7167, 0.7843, and 0.7751). Even for property sets featuring values whose combinations do not exist in nature (set 4), a comparable level of performance can be achieved (R2 = 0.7843). The comparison of predicted values and ground targeted properties for the five selected mechanical property sets demonstrates robust forward prediction performance of the model, even with unconventional or non-existent property values, which improves the reliability and versatility of the model for designing spider silk sequences with tailored properties. Notably, property sets that consist of common values (set 1 and set 5) tend to yield higher prediction performance, but the property sets containing rare value pairs (set 2 and set 3) get lower correlation, which suggests that the prediction capability of the model may be more adapt within the common value property combinations, and this understanding can guide the selection of property sets for specific design goals. The 8D property set are defined in Dataset Construction in Section [4,](#page-11-0) and specific values of the property sets are listed in Table [1.](#page-4-0)

pattern of specific motifs, for two motif examples "SB\_pos\_2" and "E\_pos\_2", respectively. Similar sequence patterns are observed across most property sets. Especially, sequences with higher E values (sets 2, 4, and also 3) demonstrate a higher level of consistency, which might be attributed to the inherent elasticity that MaSp possesses compared to other types of spider silks. These observations validate the impact of motifs in mechanical characteristics of spider silk, as suggested in[\[28\]](#page-13-0) ; as well as demonstrate that the generative method can effectively produce sequences that align with motif impacts, encompassing both composition and positioning, thus contributing to functional properties similar to those observed in natural spider silks.

In summary, the motif analysis provides additional validation the reliability of the generated spidroin sequences and affirms the self-consistency and authenticity of the generative modeling method, thereby providing robust evidence of the method's efficacy.

### **3. Conclusions**

In this work, we report a pretrained and fine-tuned model, the Silk Proteome Generative Pretrained Transformer. We used the MaSp dataset that features 1,033 sequences along with corresponding fiber-level properties, sourced from the Silkome dataset.[\[28\]](#page-13-0) A spidroin sequence generative modeling method was developed and used to design novel spider silk protein sequences to achieve target mechanical properties. We were able to generate novel silk sequences with property combinations that do not exist in nature. Through a careful analysis of associations of sequences and associated properties, we were able to develop a deep understanding of the mechanistic roles of sequence patterns in achieving overarching key mechanical properties (elastic modulus, strength, toughness, failure strain).

Our generative model yields promising predictions, with an R2 value reaching 0.85 when comparing target properties with the properties predicted for the designed sequences. Moreover, the

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 5.** Protein sequence property comparison for novel sequences (in blue) and selected sequences from BLAST search (denoted as BLAST 1 in red, and BLAST 2 in green, respectively), for five selected property sets (from top to bottom). The comparison include a) four sequence properties: sequence length, molecular weight, instability index,[\[90\]](#page-14-0) Isoelectric point; b) the amino acid percentage; c) the secondary structure fraction: the ratio of amino acid tend to be in helix (V, I, Y, F, W, L), turn (N, P, G, S) and sheet (E, M, A, L).[\[92\]](#page-14-0) These property values are calculated using ProtParam[\[91\]](#page-14-0) through a Python tool package.[\[92\]](#page-14-0) Overall, a consistent trend is observed across the property values for the novel sequences and the selected BLAST searches within each property set, though value variation exists, we note that the choice of existing sequences from the BLAST searches can potentially influence the nature of the comparison. The property consistency indicates the validity of the generated sequences regarding structural and biological features. Additionally, the consistent alignment implies that the model can effectively capture key characteristics and properties of spider silk proteins, thus reinforces the reliability of the modeling approach for novel sequence generation, and its applicability in biomaterial design.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 6.** Molecular configurations of spider silk sequences obtained through AlphaFold 2 (AF2),[\[93\]](#page-14-0) encompassing both novel sequences and "similar" BLAST 1 sequences. Although the overall folding performance for spider silks with AF2 yields relatively low pLDDT[\[94,95\]](#page-14-0) scores, hovering ≈40 to 60 (detailed values in Table S3, Supporting Information, and the plots of pLDDT per amino acid sequence are shown in Figure S2, Supporting Information), visual similarities are observed between the configurations of novel sequences and the BLAST 1 sequences. For property sets 2 to 4, resemblances are observed regarding the alignment of alpha-helices and the overall structure and coils. While for set 1, although the overall shapes exhibit less resemblance, the presence of beta-sheets is evident in the folding of both sequences. Therefore, the accuracy of AF2 predictions for spider silk folding configurations may not be optimal, and we emphasize that the structural features should be limited to a comparative analysis between different sequences. This may be due to the limited availability of spidroin protein sequences and the novelty of input sequences, yet the presence of visual similarities between the generated and existing sequences implies that our generation model is capable of capturing certain structural features for spider silk protein and can generate novel and validate spidroin sequences. Furthermore, employing the generation method to compare the structural differences can potentially uncover common structural motifs or variations that may influence the properties of silks. This can enhance the understanding of the structure-property relationship of spider silks, and aid in the design of spider silks with tailored properties.

generated sequences are novel and upon further analysis through BLAST searches are shown to feature common design principles shared with similar protein classes. We provided a detailed analysis of query cover and percent identity to measure sequence alignment and composition similarity.[\[62,89\]](#page-13-0) In addition, we have shown that our model provides excellent consistency with known features, as evidenced by comparing the properties of the novel sequences with similar existing ones, i.e., natural, ones. Overall, highly consistent trends are observed across both generated and existing sequences regarding protein properties, including the instability index, the amino acid percentage, and the fraction of secondary structures. Moreover, the structural similarity of overall folded configurations for novel and associated similar natural sequences is confirmed. The most salient motifs, which have been evaluated for their influence on the mechanical behavior of spider silk,[\[28\]](#page-13-0) show consistent impacts across the analyzed sequences, suggesting that our generative model has accurately learned critical construction principles of silk sequences for certain mechanical properties at the fiber level.

We acknowledge some limitations of the current work, first, the limited size of our dataset presents a challenge in further enhancing forward prediction performance. Further, Due to the lack of in-depth understanding regarding the intricate relationships across the hierarchical scales in spider silks, our current modeling relies on several assumptions: 1) the MaSp governs the mechanics of spider silks, and 2) the measured mechanical properties, along with derived standard deviations, adequately represents the contribution of a single spidroin sequence to fiber-level mechanics. Yet, our model could be adapted or retrained for other spidroins if more accurate relationships between different types of spidroins and their mechanical behavior are identified, or if the research scope expands to encompass additional properties beyond fiber-level mechanical characteristics, such as sequencelevel properties. Third, further validation is required through more comprehensive studies, to confirm whether the generated sequences can indeed form silk fibers. For example, this could involve implementing molecular dynamics simulations to evaluate the performance of amino acid sequences in comparison to the actual sequences across multiscale modeling, and applying protein-based additive manufacturing coupled with mechanical tests to assess the actual performance of synthetic silk fiber.

Despite these challenges, the work is a promising starting point in unraveling the complex multiscale relationships within spider silks. There are also many positive impacts. For instance, the model developed here can effectively expand the spidroin dataset, facilitating sequence-structure analysis of spider silks (e.g., including the function and modification of spidroin domains or motifs), to spawn future experimental work. The framework established here serves as a robust foundation for downstream tasks including *de novo* spidroin generation, synthetic silk design, and silk property optimization. Specifically, it allows the expansion of design space for silk-based materials, enabling the exploration of novel silk materials with improved functional properties or intriguing geometries, such as lightweight structural components, biomedical materials, or aerospace applications. The synthetic silk design approach has the potential to reduce environmental impact associated with traditional sericulture and silk product manufacturing processes. The property optimization could lead high performance fabric products, such as

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**Figure 7.** Motif analysis for five mechanical property sets (from top to bottom in each series). The bar plots in panel (a) provide comparison of motif counts for each property set. These plots depict the motif counts for both novel sequences (in blue) and two selected sequences retrieved from a BLAST search (with BLAST 1 in red and BLAST 2 in green). The motifs themselves are selected and derived from a prior study,[\[28\]](#page-13-0) with detailed information in Table S4 (Supporting Information). Additionally, the KDE plots in panels (b) and (c) illustrate the relative positioning pattern of specific motifs. These examples highlight the motifs "SB\_pos\_2" and "E\_pos\_2". When considering motif counts, a recurring trend of similarity is observed between novel sequences and existing ones across most property sets, particularly evident in sets 1, 3, and 4, which feature common property values and optimized yet non-existent values. The generated sequences share common structural motifs with natural spider silk sequences, which verifies their structural validity and biological relevance. The congruence is diminished in set 2 for some motifs, but note the choice of existing sequences from BLAST searches can influence this comparison. The consistency of motif impact is shown: sequences with higher toughness (sets 2, 3, and 4) display a decreased count of the "T\_neg\_1 & 2" motif; and sequences with elevated E values, particularly set 4, exhibit an increased count of the "E\_pos\_2" motif. As for the relative

<span id="page-11-0"></span>sports clothing with higher durability and extensibility. Furthermore, the combined effects of various spidroins on silk mechanics would be an interesting future research topic, including studying the interactions among the assemblies, using those available tools to capture the complexities across multiscales. Conversely, with an enhanced understanding of spidroin interactions, we could refine the dataset with more precise relationships and employ the same framework to enhance predictions and generation.

Beyond these impacts, the construction of our model as an end-to-end tool can serve as an example for other complex biological and non-biological materials. The pretrained silk proteome model can be fine-tuned easily for other properties across the various hierarchical levels of silk structure, including solubility for drug design, biodegradability for sustainable consumer products, and biocompatibility for silk-based medical devices. Furthermore, the spidroin generative model can also be extended to other proteins (e.g., collagens, keratins, enzymes), and biomaterials (e.g., silkworm silk, bone, hair) with similar hierarchical structures, targeting various design objectives across multiple domains. While the focus here was primarily on mechanical properties, a wider range of functional material outcomes can be considered in future iterations, such as material failure modes, optical performance, electronic features, and bio-interactions in general related to biocompatibility and degradability, among other features, can be realized.

# **4. Experimental Section**

*Dataset Construction*: In this study, modeling the MaSp type of spidroin was focussed, which serve as the primary components of silk that form spider web scaffolds and contribute to the high mechanical properties of spider silks,[\[96,97\]](#page-14-0) as also discussed in Section [1.](#page-0-0) The dataset employed was constructed and curated based on the silkome dataset.[\[28\]](#page-13-0) This dataset comprises a total of 1,033 data points, with each proteinlevel sequence paired with four corresponding fiber-level mechanical properties: toughness, elastic modulus (E), tensile strength, strain at break. All four available mechanical properties were included from the silkome dataset,[\[28\]](#page-13-0) since the work aims to generate synthetic designs with preferred mechanical properties, and to explore the sequence-property relationship of spider silks. Additionally, since each measured fiber property was associated with a set of spidroin sequences due to the complexity of spider silk composition (detailed procedures for the measurements are in ref. [\[28\]](#page-13-0)), the study incorporates standard deviation (SD) values of these properties, derived from measurements, in the training process. The inclusion of SD values in the modeling helps to capture the inherent variability in these mechanical properties, and to assess the relative consistency and reliability of both measured and predicted property values. It also suggests that the full measure of composition was not known, so focusing on the most prevalent driver known of mechanical properties was considered a good starting point. Further, the model was proficient in capturing the intricate underlying features of the input data. Thus, though spidroin sequences were only used as inputs in the training process, certain protein properties that could be derived from the sequences, such as molecular weight, were inherently considered from the provided data.

All eight data values were all normalized to be between 0…1 (normalization enhances the training with faster convergence, and simplifies the value comparison for data analysis). For each property, the minimum number and maximum values were initially identified across the entire dataset (not limited to MaSp sequences, to better capture the complexity between sequences and properties relationships, acknowledging that the real-world silk properties were influenced by a combination of spidroins). Subsequently, normalization was applied by subtracting the minimum value from each data point and then dividing them by the calculated range. These scaling parameters were saved to ensure consistent data utilization so that any normalized value could easily be converted to original units). Table S5 (Supporting Information) summarizes all normalization scaling parameters for the eight properties.

The resulting 8D properties set, used as a conditioning feature for model fine-tuning and as input for conditional generation, is described as follows:

[toughness*,* SD of toughness*,* E*,* SD of E*,* strength*,* SD of strength*,* strain*,* SD of strain] (1)

As for the MaSp dataset, the distributions of its normalized mechanical properties and standard deviations are shown in the right and the left panel in Figure [2,](#page-5-0) respectively, along with the correlations. In general, uniform distributions are observed among the properties, with toughness and strength exhibiting a stronger positive correlation compared to the others. Furthermore, Figure S1 (Supporting Information) illustrates the correlations between each mechanical property and its respective standard deviation. The toughness and elastic modulus were more positively correlated with their standard deviation values, than strength and strain. It suggests that the variability or uncertainty in measurements tends to increase as the property values increase, particularly for toughness and elastic modulus, which might be attributed to certain factors affecting the spider silk properties or the measurement process as the property values increase.

*Model Architecture: Silk Proteome Generative Pretrained Transformer (SilkomeGPT)*: A custom Byte-Pair Encoding (PBE) tokenizer with up to 50 000 tokens (minimum frequency = 2) was trained based on a set of ≈800 000 protein sequences of up to 1024 length including the silkome dataset and other known proteins (collected from the AlphaFold2 prediction database from a variety of organisms including Human, M. jannaschii, Mouse, Maiz, and many others [\(https://alphafold.ebi.ac.uk/,](https://alphafold.ebi.ac.uk/) constructed from sequences for UP000000805, UP000008816, UP000001584, UP000000625, UP000002485, UP000001450,UP000000559, UP000002311, UP000008153, UP000002195, UP000000803, UP000002296, UP000001940, UP000005640, UP000002494, UP000000589, UP000000437, UP000006548, UP000008827, UP000007305, UP000059680, and Swiss-Prot). The development of a custom protein sequence tokenizer the ability of the model to capture patterns effectively. The tokenizer learns the vocabulary and performs tokenization as input to the transformer model (the PBE tokenizer thereby learns the statistical patterns in the silk sequence data and merges the most frequently occurring byte pairs into new tokens).

A Generative Pretrained Transformer (GPT) architecture was used featuring a decoder-only self-attention transformer model, with rotary positional embedding, inspired by the GPT-NeoX architecture (Figure [1b,c\)](#page-1-0). The model features 12 layers, 8 attention heads, a hidden dimension of 1024, and an intermediate size of 4096 in the feed-forward layer (the model has 253.6 million parameters). The model was pretrained and fine-tuned from scratch as outlined in the next section.

*Training Process and Other Hyperparameters*: The generation model was first pretrained using protein sequences sourced from a substantial pretraining set of ≈600 000 protein sequences (a subset of the sequences used for tokenizer training with lengths of up to 600 amino acid residues) that include the silkome sequences. By including both general protein sequences and silk sequences, the model learns diverse structural features

location of motifs, a semblance of sequence patterns is observed across most property sets. Sequences with higher E values (sets 2, 4, and also 3) demonstrate a higher level of consistency, which might be attributed to the inherent elasticity that MaSp possesses compared to other types of spider silks. The analysis validates the impact of motifs in mechanical characteristics of spider silks, as suggested in[\[28\]](#page-13-0) ; as well as demonstrates that the generative method can effectively produce sequences that align with motif impacts, encompassing both composition and positioning, thus contributing to functional properties similar to those observed in natural spider silks.

<span id="page-12-0"></span>across species, materials and organisms (see list above). Pretraining was achieved via next-token predictions (the study also explored denoising pretraining strategies albeit no significant performance enhancement was found). The pretraining task was realized via this input, as an example:

Sequence*<*GGDSGAAAAAAAADGGRGGYGGLGRGGDSGAAAAAAAADG GRGGYGGLGSGGDSGAAAAAAGEDNEGIRYGPGGSSGAAAAAAAAGE GDSGLGYGPRSESGAASAAAAAASDGLGGSYGPEFVRSLSSNLMSSEH FLSTFSGSITQNRALSASLALARNYALQSGLNSAAANAMLNLVNRYISE VGSFAEAESYANALARAIAEGLGNAATRNNFGTLGSTGGRRGTGYMRRIG STSAAASASDAGVNGPGYGAENGLGSGAAAAAAAGEGNEGLGYGPGG ASGAAAAAAAADGGRGGLYGRRGGYGGDSGAAAAAAAGESNDGL GYGSGGASGAAAAAAAADDGRGGYGGVGSGLGEESGAAAAAAA AGEGDEGFGYGPGGASGAAAAAAAADGGRRRLYGRRGGFGGDSGAA AAAAAAGEGNEGLGYGPGGASEAAAAAAAADDGSVGFGGIGRGLG GDSDAAAAAAAAGEGNEGLGYGPGGSSGAAAAAASADGGRGGLYGR RRGNGGDSGAAAAAAAGEGGLGSGGAPSITFIRSVTPSVSRVNSFTS SLVSGGSLNVGALPEIISAGINEIASYSSGLSECEISGQVLLDIIASLLHI LRYSNIGSVDYSTVGETNGYLSSVLGGY*>*

A batch size of 48 and 4 gradient accumulation steps was used, with a linear learning rate schedule and a warmup phase.

The study then fine-tune the model against the generative and silk property prediction tasks, for sequences up to 768 amino residues length. Finetuning features three tasks: "Sequence" (same as during pretraining), "CalculateSilkContent" and "GenerateSilkContent". The sequence task here only includes silk sequences.

In the training data, this bidirectional association of properties designated was used via the task tokens, to yield, as an example, for the forward task:

CalculateSilkContent *<*AAAGGAGQGGYGGQGAGQGAAAAAAGGAGQG GYGGQGAGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGLGSGQGGYGGQG AGAAAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGLGSGQGGYGGQGAGAAAAAAG GAGQGGYGGLGGQGAGQGSGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGQ GAGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGLGGQGAGQGAAAAAAGGAGQ GGYGGQGAGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGLGSGQGGYGGQ GAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGLGGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGG YGGQGAGQGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGQGAGQGGYGGQGA GAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGLGGQGAGQGAGAAA AAAGGAGQGGYGGQGAGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGLGGQGA GAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGQGAGQGGYGGQGSGAAAAAAAA GGAGQGGYGGLGSQGAGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGG QGAGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGQGAGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGG YGGQGAGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGLGSGQGGY GGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGQGAGAAAASAAASRLSSPEASSGLS GCDVLVQALLEVVSALIHILGSSSIGPVNYGSASQSTQIVGQSVYQALG*>* [0.327,0.356,0.261,0.287,0.437,0.190,0.220,0.301]

And as an example for the generative inverse task:

GenerateSilkContent*<*0.327,0.356,0.261,0.287,0.437,0.190,0.220,0.301*>* [AAAGGAGQGGYGGQGAGQGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGQGAG QGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGLGSGQGGYGGQGAGAAAAAAAA GGAGQGGYGGLGSGQGGYGGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGLGG QGAGQGSGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGQGAGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQ GGYGGLGGQGAGQGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGQGA GQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGLGSGQGGYGGQGAGAAAAAAGGA GQGGYGGLGGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGQGAGQGAAAAA AGGAGQGGYGGQGAGQGGYGGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGL GGQGAGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGQGAGQGAGAAAAAAGGAG QGGYGGLGGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGQGAGQGGYG GQGSGAAAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGLGSQGAGQGAGAAAAAAGG AGQGGYGGQGAGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGQGAG QGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGQGAGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGG YGGLGSGQGGYGGQGAGAAAAAAGGAGQGGYGGQGA GAAAASAAASRLSSPEASSRVSSAVSNLVSSGPTNSAALSNTI SSVVSQISASNPGLSGCDVLVQALLEVVSALIHI LGSSSIGPVNYGSASQSTQIVGQSVYQALG]

The fine-tuning training set includes all known pairs of sequence and properties.

All code was developed in PyTorch, within the Hugging Face ecosystem, for further details see.[\[98\]](#page-14-0) All machine learning training was performed using an Adam optimizer,[\[99\]](#page-14-0) with a learning rate of 0.0002. Data is available via the original Silkome paper or via the GitHub page: [https://github.](https://github.com/lamm-mit/SilkomeGPT) [com/lamm-mit/SilkomeGPT.](https://github.com/lamm-mit/SilkomeGPT) The pretrained and fine-tuned models can be utilized in future work to solve other tasks; and the flexibility of the language-based modeling strategy allows for straightforward addition of other modeling tasks (e.g., solubility, other properties, genus/family classification tasks, and others).

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

The authors acknowledge support from the MIT Generative AI Initiative, NIH, USDA and ARO (W911NF2220213). Related support from the MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab, MIT Quest, and Google Cloud Computing, is acknowledged. The authors acknowledge Keiji Numata for the development of the Silkome dataset.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Author Contributions**

M.J.B. developed the overall concept and the algorithm, designed the generative model, the initial codes, oversaw the work. W.L. contributed codes and analysis, prepared the dataset, analyzed the results, and drafted the paper. W.L., D.L.K., and M.J.B analyzed the data and edited and wrote the manuscript. All authors participated in discussions about the research ideas, results and conclusions.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

#### **Keywords**

biomaterials, deep learning, generative autoregressive transformer, hierarchical, multiscale modeling, spider silk, spidroin

> Received: September 18, 2023 Revised: October 24, 2023 Published online: December 2, 2023

<sup>[1]</sup> I. Su, M. J. Buehler, *Nanomechanics of Silk: The Fundamentals of a Strong, Tough and Versatile Material*, Vol. *27*, Institute of Physics Publishing, Bristol **2016**.

<sup>[2]</sup> M. A. Meyers, P.-Y. Chen, M. I. Lopez, Y. Seki, A. Y. M. Lin, *J. Mech. Behav. Biomed. Mater.* **2011**, *4*, 626.

- <span id="page-13-0"></span>[3] M. A. Meyers, P.-Y. Chen, A. Y.-M. Lin, Y. Seki, *Prog. Mater. Sci.* **2008**, *53*, 176.
- [4] I. Su, M. J. Buehler, *J. Mech. Phys. Solids* **2020**, *144*, 104096.
- [5] W. Lu, N. A. Lee, M. J. Buehler, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2023**, *120*, 2305273120.
- [6] N. L. Garrison, J. Rodriguez, I. Agnarsson, J. A. Coddington, C. E. Griswold, C. A. Hamilton, M. Hedin, K. M. Kocot, J. M. Ledford, J. E. Bond, *PeerJ* **2016**, *4*, e1719.
- [7] A. Tarakanova, M. J. Buehler, *JOM* **2012**, *64*, 214.
- [8] I. Su, M. J. Buehler, *Spider Silk: Dynamic Mechanics*, Vol. *15*, Nature Publishing Group, London **2016**, pp. 1054–1055.
- [9] L. Batty, *Molecular Dynamics Analysis of Supercontraction in Spider Dragline Silk*, Master Thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, **2013**.
- [10] Y. Liu, Z. Shao, F. Vollrath, *Nat. Mater.* **2005**, *4*, 901.
- [11] G. V. Guinea, M. Elices, J. Pérez-Rigueiro, G. R. Plaza, *J. Exp. Biol.* **2005**, *208*, 25.
- [12] N. Cohen, M. Levin, C. D. Eisenbach, *Biomacromolecules* **2021**, *22*, 993.
- [13] C. Boutry, T. A. Blackledge, *J. Exp. Biol.* **2010**, *213*, 3505.
- [14] J. Pérez-Rigueiro, M. Elices, G. V. Guinea, *Polymer* **2003**, *44*, 3733.
- [15] E. L. Buehler, I. Su, M. J. Buehler, *Extreme Mech. Lett.* **2021**, *42*, 101034.
- [16] Q. Yang, G. Li, *Smart Mater. Struct.* **2014**, *23*, 105032.
- [17] S. P. Kelly, A. Sensenig, K. A. Lorentz, T. A. Blackledge, *Zoology* **2011**, *114*, 233.
- [18] E. Steven, J. G. Park, A. Paravastu, E. B. Lopes, J. S. Brooks, O. Englander, T. Siegrist, P. Kaner, R. G. Alamo, *Sci. Technol. Adv. Mater.* **2011**, *112*, 1.
- [19] E. Steven, W. R. Saleh, V. Lebedev, S. F. A. Acquah, V. Laukhin, R. G. Alamo, J. S. Brooks, *Nat. Commun.* **2013**, *4*, 2435.
- [20] D. Chouhan, P. Das, N. Thatikonda, S. K. Nandi, M. Hedhammar, B. B. Mandal, *ACS Biomater. Sci. Eng.* **2019**, *5*, 3537.
- [21] S. Salehi, K. Koeck, T. Scheibel, *Molecules* **2020**, *25*, 737.
- [22] K. Spiess, A. Lammel, T. Scheibel, *Macromol. Biosci.* **2010**, *10*, 998.
- [23] J. G. Hardy, A. Leal-Egaña, T. R. Scheibel, *Macromol. Biosci.* **2013**, *13*, 1431.
- [24] J. Y. Wong, J. McDonald, M. Taylor-Pinney, D. I. Spivak, D. L. Kaplan, M. J. Buehler, *Nano Today* **2012**, *7*, 488.
- [25] C. H. Yu, Z. Qin, F. J. Martin-Martinez, M. J. Buehler, *ACS Nano* **2019**, *13*, 7471.
- [26] L. Eisoldt, A. Smith, T. Scheibel, *Mater. Today* **2011**, *14*, 80.
- [27] S. J. Blamires, T. A. Blackledge, I.-M. Tso, *Annu. Rev. Entomol.* **2017**, *62*, 443.
- [28] K. Arakawa, N. Kono, A. D. Malay, A. Tateishi, N. Ifuku, H. Masunaga, R. Sato, K. Tsuchiya, R. Ohtoshi, D. Pedrazzoli, A. Shinohara, Y. Ito, H. Nakamura, A. Tanikawa, Y. Suzuki, T. Ichikawa, S. Fujita, M. Fujiwara, M. Tomita, S. J. Blamires, J.-A. Chuah, H. Craig, C. P. Foong, G. Greco, J. Guan, C. Holland, D. L. Kaplan, K. Sudesh, B. B. Mandal, Y. Norma-Rashid, et al., *Sci. Adv.* **2022**, *8*, eabo6043.
- [29] A. D. Malay, H. C. Craig, J. Chen, N. A. Oktaviani, K. Numata, *Biomacromolecules* **2022**, *23*, 1827.
- [30] P. L. Babb, N. F. Lahens, S. M. Correa-Garhwal, D. N. Nicholson, E. J. Kim, J. B. Hogenesch, M. Kuntner, L. Higgins, C. Y. Hayashi, I. Agnarsson, B. F. Voight, *Nat. Genet.* **2017**, *49*, 895.
- [31] J. E. Garb, N. A. Ayoub, C. Y. Hayashi, *BMC Evol. Biol.* **2010**, *1*, 1.
- [32] T. Arndt, K. Jaudzems, O. Shilkova, J. Francis, M. Johansson, P. R. Laity, C. Sahin, U. Chatterjee, N. Kronqvist, E. Barajas-Ledesma, R. Kumar, G. Chen, R. Strömberg, A. Abelein, M. Langton, M. Landreh, A. Barth, C. Holland, J. Johansson, A. Rising, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 4695.
- [33] S. Wang, W. Huang, D. Yang, *J. Biomol. NMR* **2012**, *54*, 415.
- [34] J. Arguelles, R. H. Baker, J. Perez-Rigueiro, G. V Guinea, M. Elices, C. Y. Hayashi, *J. Comparative Physiol. B* **2023**, *193*, 25.

- [35] N. A. Ayoub, J. E. Garb, A. Kuelbs, C. Y. Hayashi, *Mol. Biol. Evol.* **2013**, *30*, 589.
- [36] V. G. Debabov, V. G. Bogush, *ACS Biomater. Sci. Eng.* **2020**, *6*, 3745.
- [37] K. N. Savage, J. M. Gosline, *J. Exp. Biol.* **2008**, *211*, 1937.
- [38] J. Bauer, T. Scheibel, *Biomacromolecules* **2017**, *18*, 2521.
- [39] W. Huang, D. Ebrahimi, N. Dinjaski, A. Tarakanova, M. J. Buehler, J. Y. Wong, D. L. Kaplan, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2017**, *50*, 866.
- [40] W. Zhang, C. Ye, K. Zheng, J. Zhong, Y. Tang, Y. Fan, M. J. Buehler, S. Ling, D. L. Kaplan, *ACS Nano* **2018**, *12*, 6968.
- [41] A. Seidel, O. Liivak, S. Calve, J. Adaska, G. Ji, Z. Yang, D. Grubb, D. B. Zax, L. W. Jelinski, *Macromolecules* **2000**, *33*, 775.
- [42] M. B. Hinman, J. A. Jones, R. V. Lewis, *Trends Biotechnol.* **2000**, *18*, 374.
- [43] A. E. Brooks, S. M. Stricker, S. B. Joshi, T. J. Kamerzell, C. R. Middaugh, R. V. Lewis, *Biomacromolecules* **2008**, *9*, 1506.
- [44] G. Petrou, R. Jansson, M. Högqvist, J. Erlandsson, L. Wågberg, M. Hedhammar, T. Crouzier, *Biomacromolecules* **2018**, *19*, 3268.
- [45] S. T. Krishnaji, G. Bratzel, M. E. Kinahan, J. A. Kluge, C. Staii, J. Y. Wong, M. J. Buehler, D. L. Kaplan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2013**, *23*, 241.
- [46] S. Lin, S. Ryu, O. Tokareva, G. Gronau, M. M. Jacobsen, W. Huang, D. J. Rizzo, D. Li, C. Staii, N. M. Pugno, J. Y. Wong, D. L. Kaplan, M. J. Buehler, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 6892.
- [47] D. López Barreiro, J. Yeo, A. Tarakanova, F. J. Martin-Martinez, M. J. Buehler, *Multiscale Modeling of Silk and Silk-Based Biomaterials—A Review*, Vol. *19*, Wiley-VCH Verlag, Weinheim, Germany **2019**.
- [48] G. X. Gu, I. Su, S. Sharma, J. L. Voros, Z. Qin, M. J. Buehler, *J. Biomech. Eng.* **2016**, *138*, 021006.
- [49] G. X. Gu, C.-T. Chen, D. J. Richmond, M. J. Buehler, *Mater. Horiz.* **2018**, *5*, 939.
- [50] M. Milazzo, V. Fitzpatrick, C. E. Owens, I. M. Carraretto, G. H. McKinley, D. L. Kaplan, M. J. Buehler, *ACS Biomater. Sci. Eng.* **2023**, *9*, 1285.
- [51] W. Lu, Z. Yang, M. J. Buehler, *J. Appl. Phys.* **2022**, *132*, 074703.
- [52] E. D. Sanders, A. S. Ramos, G. H. Paulino, *Struct. Multidiscipl. Optim.* **2020**, *62*, 559.
- [53] X. hui Han, H. ling Liu, G. Xie, L. Sang, J. Zhou, *Appl. Therm. Eng.* **2021**, *195*, 117154.
- [54] Z. Qin, B. G. Compton, J. A. Lewis, M. J. Buehler, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 7038.
- [55] S. Cranford, N. Pugno, J. Vanzo, S. Cranford, M. Buehler, *Atti del XX Cong. Nazionale dell*‵*Associazione Italiana di Meccanica Teorica ed Applicata*, Minisymposium Micro-or nano-mechanics, Bologna, Italy, **2011**.
- [56] X. Chang, P. Ren, P. Xu, Z. Li, X. Chen, A. Hauptmann, *IEEE Trans Pattern Anal Mach Intell* **2021**, *45*, 1.
- [57] A. K. Pandey, S. S. Roy, *Neural Process Lett.* **2023**, *55*, 7709.
- [58] Y.-C. Hsu, Z. Yang, M. J. Buehler, *APL Mater.* **2022**, *10*, 041107.
- [59] M. J. Buehler, *Oxf. Open Mater. Sci.* **2022**, *2*, itac010.
- [60] Z. Yang, M. J. Buehler, *Small Methods* **2022**, *6*, 2200537.
- [61] Z. Yang, Y.-C. Hsu, M. J. Buehler, *J. Mech. Phys. Solids* **2023**, *170*, 105098.
- [62] B. Ni, D. L. Kaplan, M. J. Buehler, *Chem* **2023**, *9*, 1828.
- [63] R. K. Luu, M. Wysokowski, M. J. Buehler, *Appl. Phys. Lett.* **2023**, *122*, 234103.
- [64] M. J. Buehler, *64* **2023**, *181*, 105454.
- [65] T. N. Kipf, M. Welling, *arXiv:1609.02907* **2016**.
- [66] A. Jaegle, S. Borgeaud, J.-B. Alayrac, C. Doersch, C. Ionescu, D. Ding, S. Koppula, D. Zoran, A. Brock, E. Shelhamer, O. Hénaff, M. M. Botvinick, A. Zisserman, O. Vinyals, J. Carreira, In ICLR arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.14795, **2021**.
- [67] T. Schleider, R. Troncy, T. Ehrhart, M. Dorozynski, F. Rottensteiner, J. Sebastián Lozano, G. Lo Cicero, in *Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Structuring and Understanding of Multimedia HeritAge Contents*, Association for Computing Machinery, New York, USA **2021**, pp. 41–49.

<span id="page-14-0"></span>

- [68] M. Dorozynski, D. Clermont, F. Rottensteiner, *ISPRS Ann. Photogramm., Remote Sens. Spat. Inf. Sci.* **2019**, *IV-2/W6*, 47.
- [69] M. Jiang, T. Shu, C. Ye, J. Ren, S. Ling, *Analyst* **2021**, *146*, 2490.
- [70] T. Iqbal, S. Qureshi, *J. King Saud Univ.-Comput. Inf. Sci.* **2022**, *34*, 2515.
- [71] L. Yang, Z. Zhang, Y. Song, S. Hong, R. Xu, Y. Zhao, Y. Shao, W. Zhang, B. Cui, M.-H. Yang, *ACM Comput. Surv.* **2023**, *56*, 1.
- [72] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N. Gomez, L. Kaiser, I. Polosukhin, *In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, (Ed.: A. Vaswani, A. Vaswani, A. Vaswani, A. Vaswani, A. Vaswani, A. Vaswani, A. Vaswani), Curran Associates, Inc., USA, **2017**, pp. 111.
- [73] J. Devlin, M.-W. Chang, K. Lee, K. Toutanova, arXiv:1810.04805 **2018**.
- [74] T. Brown, B. Mann, N. Ryder, M. Subbiah, J. D. Kaplan, P. Dhariwal, A. Neelakantan, P. Shyam, G. Sastry, A. Askell, *Adv. Neural Inf. Process Syst.* **2020**, *33*, 1877.
- [75] S. Black, S. Biderman, E. Hallahan, Q. Anthony, L. Gao, L. Golding, H. He, C. Leahy, K. McDonell, J. Phang, arXiv:2204.06745 **2022**.
- [76] S. Biderman, H. Schoelkopf, Q. G. Anthony, H. Bradley, K. O'Brien, E. Hallahan, M. A. Khan, S. Purohit, U. S. Prashanth, E. Raff, in *Int. Conf. on Machine Learning*, PMLR, USA **2023**, pp. 2397–2430, [https:](https://proceedings.mlr.press/v202/biderman23a.html) [//proceedings.mlr.press/v202/biderman23a.html.](https://proceedings.mlr.press/v202/biderman23a.html)
- [77] Z. Lan, M. Chen, S. Goodman, K. Gimpel, P. Sharma, R. Soricut, arXiv:1909.11942 **2019**.
- [78] B. Wang, A. Komatsuzaki, GPT-J-6B: A 6 Billion Parameter Autoregressive Language Model, **2021**, [https://github.com/kingoflolz/](https://github.com/kingoflolz/mesh-transformer-jax) [mesh-transformer-jax.](https://github.com/kingoflolz/mesh-transformer-jax)
- [79] J. A. Kluge, O. Rabotyagova, G. G. Leisk, D. L. Kaplan, *Trends Biotechnol.* **2008**, *26*, 244.
- [80] Y. Liu, N. Qi, T. Song, M. Jia, Z. Xia, Z. Yuan, W. Yuan, K.-Q. Zhang, B. Sun, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2014**, *6*, 20670.
- [81] S. Yodmuang, S. L. McNamara, A. B. Nover, B. B. Mandal, M. Agarwal, T.-A. N. Kelly, P. G. Chao, C. Hung, D. L. Kaplan, G. Vunjak-Novakovic, *Acta Biomater.* **2015**, *11*, 27.
- [82] W. Sun, D. A. Gregory, M. A. Tomeh, X. Zhao, *Int. J. Mol. Sci.* **2021**, *22*, 1499.
- [83] B. Kundu, S. C. Kundu, *Biomaterials* **2012**, *33*, 7456.
- [84] M. Farokhi, F. Mottaghitalab, Y. Fatahi, A. Khademhosseini, D. L. Kaplan, *Trends Biotechnol.* **2018**, *36*, 907.
- [85] T. Yucel, M. L. Lovett, D. L. Kaplan, *J. Controlled Release* **2014**, *190*, 381.

- [86] A. S. Lammel, X. Hu, S.-H. Park, D. L. Kaplan, T. R. Scheibel, *Biomaterials* **2010**, *31*, 4583.
- [87] B. An, J. E. Jenkins, S. Sampath, G. P. Holland, M. Hinman, J. L. Yarger, R. Lewis, *Biomacromolecules* **2012**, *13*, 3938.
- [88] N. Kono, K. Arakawa, *Dev. Growth Differ.* **2019**, *61*, 316.
- [89] L. Quan, T. Wu, Q. Lyu, *Chem* **2023**, *9*, 1625.
- [90] K. Guruprasad, B. V. B. Reddy, M. W. Pandit, *Protein Eng., Des. Select.* **1990**, *4*, 155.
- [91] E. Gasteiger, C. Hoogland, A. Gattiker, S. Duvaud, M. R. Wilkins, R. D. Appel, A. Bairoch, in *The Proteomics Protocols Handbook*, Humana Press, Totowa, NJ **2005**, pp. 571–607.
- [92] P. J. A. Cock, T. Antao, J. T. Chang, B. A. Chapman, C. J. Cox, A. Dalke, I. Friedberg, T. Hamelryck, F. Kauff, B. Wilczynski, M. J. L. de Hoon, *Bioinformatics* **2009**, *25*, 1422.
- [93] J. Jumper, R. Evans, A. Pritzel, T. Green, M. Figurnov, O. Ronneberger, K. Tunyasuvunakool, R. Bates, A. Žídek, A. Potapenko, A. Bridgland, C. Meyer, S. A. A. Kohl, A. J. Ballard, A. Cowie, B. Romera-Paredes, S. Nikolov, R. Jain, J. Adler, T. Back, S. Petersen, D. Reiman, E. Clancy, M. Zielinski, M. Steinegger, M. Pacholska, T. Berghammer, S. Bodenstein, D. Silver, O. Vinyals, et al., *Nature* **2021**, *596*, 583.
- [94] H.-B. Guo, A. Perminov, S. Bekele, G. Kedziora, S. Farajollahi, V. Varaljay, K. Hinkle, V. Molinero, K. Meister, C. Hung, P. Dennis, N. Kelley-Loughnane, R. Berry, *Sci. Rep.* **2022**, *12*, 10696.
- [95] M. Varadi, S. Anyango, M. Deshpande, S. Nair, C. Natassia, G. Yordanova, D. Yuan, O. Stroe, G. Wood, A. Laydon, A. Žídek, T. Green, K. Tunyasuvunakool, S. Petersen, J. Jumper, E. Clancy, R. Green, A. Vora, M. Lutfi, M. Figurnov, A. Cowie, N. Hobbs, P. Kohli, G. Kleywegt, E. Birney, D. Hassabis, S. Velankar, *Nucleic Acids Res.* **2022**, *50*, D439.
- [96] H. C. Craig, D. Piorkowski, S. Nakagawa, M. M. Kasumovic, S. J. Blamires, *J. R. Soc. Interface* **2020**, *17*, 20200471.
- [97] N. Kono, H. Nakamura, M. Mori, Y. Yoshida, R. Ohtoshi, A. D. Malay, D. A. Pedrazzoli Moran, M. Tomita, K. Numata, K. Arakawa, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2021**, *118*, 2107065118.
- [98] A. Paszke, S. Gross, F. Massa, A. Lerer, J. Bradbury, G. Chanan, T. Killeen, Z. Lin, N. Gimelshein, L. Antiga, A. Desmaison, A. Köpf, E. Yang, Z. DeVito, M. Raison, A. Tejani, S. Chilamkurthy, B. Steiner, L. Fang, J. Bai, S. Chintala, *In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems*, (Eds.: H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, A. Beygelzimer, F. d Alchè-Buc, E. Fox, R. Garnett), Curran Associates, Inc., USA, **2019**.
- [99] D. P. Kingma, J. Ba, arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980, **2014**.