# <span id="page-0-0"></span>Deformation Behavior of Polystyrene-Grafted Nanoparticle Assemblies with Low Grafting Density

Yang Jiao,<sup>†,‡</sup> Andrew Tibbits,<sup>†,‡</sup> Andrew Gillman,<sup>†,‡</sup> Ming-Siao Hsiao,<sup>†,‡</sup> Philip Buskohl,<sup>†</sup> Lawrence F. Drummy, and Richard A. Vaia\*, o

<sup>†</sup>Materials and Manufacturing Directorate, Air Force Research Laboratories, WPAFB, Ohio 45433, United States <sup>‡</sup>UES, Inc., Dayton, Ohio 45432, United States

Supporting Information

ABSTRACT: Matrix-free, polymer-grafted nanoparticle (PGN) assemblies show promise for a wide array of structural, photonic, and electrical applications. We examine the modulus, yield strength, and crazing of assemblies of polystyrene grafted  $Fe_3O_4$  ( $Fe_3O_4$ -PS) at low graft density ( $\Sigma$ < 0.15 chains/nm<sup>2</sup>) where chain entanglements are maximized. From the wrinkling-cracking method (WCM) we show that modulus (E) and yield stress  $(\sigma_v)$  are independent of nanoscale film thickness  $(70 < h_f < 250 \text{ nm})$ and graft molecular weight (30 kDa < MW < 370 kDa) and in good

agreement with predictions from effective medium theory. Furthermore, thin film craze observations from TEM imply two critical length scales for maximum deformability of matrix-free PGN assemblies: (1) PGN core size should be less than the critical length scale of the craze microstructure, and (2) near-neighbor entanglements are optimized for the lowest graft length (N) where the PGN architecture exhibit intermediate graft densities ( $r_0\Sigma^{0.5}\sim 3-6$  and  $N/N_e\sim 4-6$ ). These findings provide a foundation for optimizing designs that simultaneously maximize inorganic volume fraction, processability, and mechanical robustness for PGN thin film assemblies.

#### INTRODUCTION

Polymer-grafted nanoparticles, PGNs (also termed hairy nanoparticles, HNPs), are of interest for applications ranging from structural to photonic and electrical. Grafting the polymer chains to the nanoparticle (NP) surface is an effective strategy to control interparticle interaction and hence particle dispersion. Nevertheless, polymer nanocomposites (PNCs) that are based on blends of NPs and matrix polymers face numerous design limitations and processing challenges.<sup>2</sup> Some of these issues can be circumvented via matrix-free PGNs (i.e., PGN assemblies).<sup>3,4</sup> Interpenetration of adjacent polymer canopies, rather than entanglement with a surrounding linear chain matrix, affords high NP volume fraction without NP aggregation. Furthermore, the soft interparticle potential enables rapid fabrication of crack-free large area, ordered structures on a range of substrates using conventional coating techniques.<sup>5,6</sup> These films exhibit increased robustness relative to ligand coated NP supercrystals<sup>7,8</sup> and a greater resistance to dewetting relative to analogous polymer films.9 Many of the potential applications (coatings, adhesives, membrane separators, energy storage, etc.)<sup>10-14</sup> necessitate co-optimization of functional performance with yield stress and toughness. Unfortunately, an understanding of how the architecture of the polymer grafted canopy determines plasticity and failure modes in PGN assembles is incomplete.

The architecture of the polymer grafted canopy can be understood via the Daoud-Cotton, <sup>15</sup> Wijmans-Zhulina, <sup>16</sup> and Ohno models, 17 which relate the structure of the polymer brush to the graft density, chain length, and surface curvature

(Figure 1). A transition between a concentrated polymer brush (CPB) and a semidilute polymer brush (SDPB) is predicted at a critical radius  $(r_c)$ , where  $r_c = r_0(\Sigma^*)^{0.5}(v^*)^{-1}$ , with  $r_0$ ,  $v^*$ , and  $\Sigma^*$  defined respectively as the nanoparticle size, the reduced excluded volume parameter ( $v^* = v/(4\pi)^{0.5}$ ), and the

Figure 1. Chain conformation of polymer grafted nanoparticles (PGN) as a function of chain grafting density,  $\Sigma$ , and degree of polymerization, N, at a given particle radius,  $r_0$ . The polymer conformations include mushroom or distorted (bottom left), extended or concentrated polymer brush (CPB) (bottom right), entangled or semidilute polymer brush (SDPB) (top left), and mixed CPB and SDPB (top right) with a transition at a critical radius,  $r_c$ .

Received: July 16, 2018 August 29, 2018 Published: September 11, 2018

reduced grafting density  $(\Sigma^* = \Sigma l_0^{\ 2})$  with  $l_0$  as the segment length. On average, chain conformations in the CPB regime are stretched, resulting in a hard-sphere-type potential, whereas in the SDPB regime chains are relaxed, yielding a softer interparticle potential. Qualitatively, these relaxed conformations afford greater interpenetration and entanglements between PGNs. This transition has been observed for PGNs with a variety of polymer grafts including polystyrene (PS), poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA), poly(butyl acrylate) (PBA), and poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO).  $^{19-21}$ 

Chain entanglements are foundational to plasticity and toughness.<sup>22,23</sup> For linear PS, the entanglement molecular weight  $(M_e)$  is ~13 kDa, <sup>24</sup> and the critical molecular weight at the onset of entanglements is  $2M_e$ . Homogenous (shear banding) or inhomogeneous (crazing) deformation dominates plasticity at approximately 6-8 times the entanglement molecular weight (i.e., MW ~ 110 kDa).<sup>25</sup> For NP-polymer blends, NP dispersion plays an important additional role.<sup>26</sup> Agglomerates can reduce toughness by initiating or accelerating cracking, or they can increase toughness by triggering energy dissipation processes across a larger volume of matrix. During inhomogeneous deformation, NPs are excluded from the craze or entrapped as aggregates among mature craze fibrils.<sup>27–29</sup> In contrast to these PNC blends, very few studies are available on the deformation of PGN assemblies. Simulations of crazing and homogeneous deformation by Robbins and Balazs, respectively, have shown unique behavior, such as yield determined by interfacial energy and straintriggered reconfiguration of the lattice structure. 30,31 Choi et al. showed that a transition from brittle fracture to crazing occurred when the chain length in the SDPB regime (N<sub>SDPB</sub>) of the graft exceeds roughly 4 times the entanglement length of polystyrene, N<sub>e</sub>. 32 The physics underlying this lower critical segment length for the canopy versus bulk PS, however, was not discussed. Finally as Ginzburg and Balazs recently showed, the long-range order of the NPs in matrix-free PGNs also depends on the PGN architecture. 33,34 For example, strings and sheets have been observed in simulations<sup>35</sup> and experiments.<sup>5,36,37</sup> Crazing in ordered assemblies has also been observed.<sup>38</sup> The impact on deformability and toughness of ordered PGN assembles (relative to disordered assemblies), however, is unknown.

Because segments in the CPB regime do not contribute substantially to canopy entanglements, minimizing the volume of the CPB regime by lowering grafting density should increase NP volume fraction while affording toughness. Thus, we examine the yield strength and crazing of matrix free, thin film assemblies of polystyrene grafted iron oxide (Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS) at low graft density where the CPB regime is minimized. We experimentally establish the framework and limitations of this approach for disordered PGN assemblies. At very low graft densities and graft molecular weight, brittle behavior and cracking occur, likely arising from limited PGN entanglements due to space-filling requirements of the few chains per particle. Increased molecular weight however results in toughness comparable to linear PS. Combined with prior reports on larger NPs with higher graft density, these findings suggest that plasticity and NP volume fraction can be optimized at an intermediate graft density.

#### **■ EXPERIMENTAL SECTION**

**Materials.** All materials were used as received. Polystyrene (PS) (MW = 267 kDa; PDI = 1.12) was obtained from PolymerSource

Inc., and PS with other molecular weights (MW = 108 kDa, PDI = 1.03; MW = 171 kDa, PDI = 1.02; and MW = 579 kDa, PDI = 1.02) were purchased from Polymer Laboratories Ltd. Toluene was purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Poly(dimethylsiloxane) (PDMS) sheet with thickness  $\approx 1$  mm was prepared by mixing Sylgard 184 (Dow Chemical Co.) with a 10:1 ratio by mass of base to curing agent. The PDMS was allowed to degas at ambient for 2 h and then cured at 75 °C for 2 h. The PDMS sheet was cut into 15 mm  $\times$  5 mm specimens. The modulus of the PDMS ( $E_{\rm s}$ ) was measured using a DMA (TA Instruments) in tension mode and varied from 2.8 to 3.1 MPa, depending on variability among PDMS batches. The Poisson's ratio of PDMS was assumed to be 0.5.

PGN Synthesis and Characterization. Oleic acid and oleylamine-stabilized Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoparticles were synthesized by the hightemperature thermal decomposition method. <sup>39</sup> Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS PGNs were synthesized by surface-initiated reversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) polymerization based on previously published protocols with the same materials used. 40 To remove free chains, the product was washed multiple times by suspending in toluene followed by pelletization. Lack of free chains was confirmed by the absence of features lower in size than the PGN by gel permeation chromatography-light scattering (GPC/LS, Optilab rEX, Wyatt) and dynamic light scattering (DLS, Zetasizer NanoS). The grafted polymer was etched from the NP surface using hydrofluoric acid to determine molecular weights, which were measured by GPC/LS in THF using light scatting and a refractive index detector. Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) was conducted under nitrogen (N<sub>2</sub>) at a heating rate of 10 °C/min using a TA Hi-Res TGA 2950 thermogravimetric analyzer for calculation of grafting density and core volume fraction. Hydrodynamic diameters of PGNs were measured by DLS in dilute toluene solutions (<0.01 wt % PGN).

Thin Film Preparation and Characterization. Silicon wafers for thin film PS and PGN preparation were cleaned with UV-Ozone (Novoscan Tech., Inc.) for 20 min. Thin films with controlled nanoscale thickness were prepared by flow-coating dilute solutions onto a silicon wafer with a custom-built flow-coater. Thickness was measured with a Bruker DektakXT profilometer immediately after flow-coating and was controlled by concentration and velocity of the blade (typically 1-5 wt % polystyrene in toluene at 3-15 mm/s) prior to transfer to alternate substrates (copper grid or PDMS). TEM samples for general observation were prepared by floating the thin films off the silicon wafer onto a water surface and then capturing it with a copper grid. Qualitative structural changes were observed by deforming the grid manually prior to examination via FEI Talos transmission electron microscope (TEM) operated at 200 kV. To image the crazes after straining from WCM, the thin film was floated off PDMS in ethanol and then transferred onto a copper grid for TEM analysis. Small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) experiments were performed on a three-pinhole SAXS system (Rigaku, Model S-MAX 3000) set to transmission mode at a sample/detector distance of 150 cm. Two-dimensional (2D) images were reduced using Nika 1 macros for Igor Pro<sup>35</sup> and corrected for transmission and background.

For determination of yield properties via the wrinkling-cracking method (WCM), PDMS sheets were placed on top of PS or PGN thin films, and the water immersion method was utilized to separate the bilayer specimens from wafer. 41 Bilayer specimens were subsequently mounted onto a strain stage with a controller (Encoder Mike, ORIEL Instruments). A uniaxial tensile strain was applied continuously with a constant strain rate of  $1 \times 10^{-4}$  s<sup>-1</sup>, and a video was taken by reflective optical microscope (Nikon) with resolution of  $3264 \times 2448$  pixel to monitor the evolution of crazing on a fixed area (approximately 1 mm × 1 mm) of the surface of bilayer as a function of strain. Strain was determined from the strain rate and video rate (1 frame/s), and averages over 5-7 samples were typically used for the results reported in the paper and the Supporting Information. All error bars reported represent one standard deviation of these measurements. ImageJ was used to calculate the wrinkle wavelength  $\lambda$  and quantify craze density N every 5–10 frames. Only experiments exhibiting distinct craze density growth regions with the second region undergoing bisectional segmentation (i.e., segment length,  $\langle d \rangle$ ,

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Table 1. Characteristics of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS Polymer Grafted Nanoparticles (PGNs)

| sample                                | MW <sup>a</sup> (kDa) | $M_{\rm w}/M_{\rm n}$ | $\Sigma^{b}$ (ch/nm <sup>2</sup> ) | NP (vol %) | $n^c$ (ch/NP) | $h_c^d$ (nm) | $h_{\mathrm{DLS}}^{e}$ (nm) | $h_{\text{MWC-WZ}} f(\text{nm})$ |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|------------------------------------|------------|---------------|--------------|-----------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Fe <sub>3</sub> O <sub>4</sub> -PS35  | 35                    | 1.10                  | 0.11                               | 11.6       | 20.5          | 1.93         | 14.32                       | 12.05                            |
| Fe <sub>3</sub> O <sub>4</sub> -PS61  | 61                    | 1.47                  | 0.03                               | 21.4       | 5.6           | 0            | 18.58                       | 13.15                            |
| Fe <sub>3</sub> O <sub>4</sub> -PS111 | 111                   | 1.09                  | 0.14                               | 3.6        | 26.1          | 2.6          | 26.73                       | 28.05                            |
| Fe <sub>3</sub> O <sub>4</sub> -PS159 | 159                   | 1.16                  | 0.08                               | 4.2        | 14.9          | 1.16         | 25.68                       | 31.41                            |
| Fe <sub>3</sub> O <sub>4</sub> -PS250 | 250                   | 1.10                  | 0.04                               | 5.1        | 7.5           | 0            | 36.47                       | 36.27                            |
| Fe <sub>3</sub> O <sub>4</sub> -PS315 | 315                   | 1.18                  | 0.06                               | 3.3        | 11.2          | 0.56         | 43.10                       | 45.86                            |
| Fe <sub>3</sub> O <sub>4</sub> -PS369 | 369                   | 1.09                  | 0.05                               | 3.0        | 9.3           | 0.22         | 44.63                       | 48.79                            |

<sup>a</sup>Graft molecular weight (MW = N × 104.1 Da, where N is the number of monomers per chain). <sup>b</sup>Graft density  $\Sigma = [(w_{PS}/(100 - w_{PS})]N_A\rho_{NP}r_0/3M_n$ , where  $w_{PS}$ ,  $N_A$ , and  $\rho_{NP}$  are the experimental weight loss of PS-grafted NP, Avogadro's number, and the density of iron oxide (5.24 g/cm³), respectively. <sup>c</sup>Average number of chains per NP,  $n = 4\pi r_0^2 \Sigma$ . <sup>d</sup>Critical brush height for CPB to SDPB transition,  $h_c = r_c - r_0$ . <sup>e</sup>Brush height determined from the hydrodynamic radius,  $r_{H}$ , measured via DLS ( $h_{DLS} = r_H - r_0$ ). <sup>f</sup>Swollen brush height determined from eqs 1 and 2.

where  $\varepsilon$  is defined as the applied uniaxial tensile strain and c is a constant following the relationship  $\langle d \rangle = c \overline{\varepsilon}^{\beta}$  with  $\beta$ , the fragmentation rate exponent, equal to -1) were included in the final data analysis. No debonding is noticed in the loading regime of interest, and sufficient adhesion, observed through the lack of bubbles and uniform wrinkling wavelength, is maintained throughout the experiments. All analyses of raw craze density experimental data including best fit lines through craze density vs strain data were performed in MATLAB. A more detailed description of data analysis and continuum mechanical models is included in the Supporting Information.

#### ■ RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

PGNs with canopy dominated by SDPB conformations ( $r_c \le r_0$ ) were synthesized via surface-initiated reversible addition—fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) polymerization of polystyrene (PS) from iron oxide nanoparticles ( $r_0 = 3.85 \pm 0.55$  nm). In brief, iron oxide nanoparticles were first synthesized and stabilized with oleic acid and oleylamine. A carboxyl-terminated trithiocarbonate was used as a chain transfer agent (CTA) and incorporated onto a triethoxysilane and anchored onto the NPs via ligand exchange. Finally, RAFT polymerization was performed from the surface with styrene to synthesize low graft density Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS PGNs. Graft density and molecular weight could be readily tailored by varying polymerization time and RAFT agent concentrations. Table 1 summarizes the characteristics of the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS PGNs discussed ( $\Sigma < 0.15$  nm<sup>-2</sup>, 30 kDa < MW < 370 kDa).

The critical brush height for the CPB to SDPB transition ( $h_c = r_c - r_0$ ) is estimated from the modified Daoud–Cotton model and also listed in Table 1.<sup>17,42</sup>  $h_c$  is between 0 and 2.5 nm for all systems, indicating that >90% of the canopies consist of SDPB. Figure 2 summarizes the thickness of the swollen canopy, h, in a good solvent (toluene,  $\chi_{\rm PS-toluene} = 0.441$  at 25 °C) as determined by dynamic light scattering (DLS). The experimental values, especially at MW > 100 kDa, agree well with brush height, h, predictions by the Milner–Witten–Cates model<sup>43</sup> as adapted by Wijmans and Zhulina (MWC–WZ), <sup>16</sup> given by

$$\left(\frac{h}{H_0}\right)^3 \left[1 + 0.75 \left(\frac{h}{\omega H_0}\right) + 0.2 \left(\frac{h}{\omega H_0}\right)^2\right] = 1 \tag{1}$$

$$H_0 = \left(\frac{8}{\pi^2}\right)^{1/3} l_0 N v^{1/3} \Sigma^{*1/3} \tag{2}$$

In eqs 1 and 2,  $\omega = r_0/H_0$ , and the monomer length and excluded volume parameter used are appropriate for PS at the given low graft densities ( $l_0 = 0.541$  nm and v = 0.059 (= 1/2  $-\chi$ ), respectively). Note that at the highest MW (>100 kDa)

**Figure 2.** Corona height (h) in toluene (DLS, solid black circles; MWC–WZ model, open red circles). The dashed line ( $R^2 = 0.97$ ) shows the line of best fit (slope = 0.65) between  $\log(h)$  and  $\log(MW)$  for DLS corona height with MW > 100 kDa.

 $h \propto N^{0.65}$  is in reasonable agreement with predicted scaling of  $h \propto N^{3/5}$  as  $N \to \infty$  for the SDPB regime. This is consistent with prior spherical brush studies. <sup>16</sup> For MW < 100 kDa, the larger experimental values likely arise from insufficient screening of core—core interactions in solution. Simulations by Chremos and Douglas <sup>44</sup> indicate that sparsely grafted PGNs are conformationally polarizable and form strings. This string arrangement is consistent with previous experimental reports <sup>45</sup> and recent predictions of phase behavior of PGN assemblies by Ginzburg. <sup>33</sup> Figure 3 summarizes the disordered morphology of higher MW thin film assemblies of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS111 and Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS315. For the largest MWs, Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> particles are disordered, which contrasts ordered lattice packing previously observed for PGNs with high grafting densities. <sup>20</sup> For MW < 100 kDa,

Figure 3. Microstructure (TEM) of thin film ( $\sim$ 20 nm) Fe $_3$ O $_4$ -PS PGN assemblies showing continuous PGN films.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>insufficient polymer is available to effectively screen particle—particle interactions, leading to more increased chaining and clustering compared with the high MW grafts (TEM in Figure S1). For example, SAXS of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS35 (Figure S2) exhibits an intermediate peak at  $q \sim 0.85$  nm<sup>-1</sup>, which corresponds to  $\sim 2r_0$ . This is absent in the SAXS of the high MW PGNs.

Mechanical characterization of these films is performed through the wrinkling-cracking method (WCM) for measurement of the elastic modulus and yield stress (Figure 4). In

Figure 4. Wrinkling–cracking method (WCM). (a) Schematic of localization events under uniaxial strain in combination with orthogonal buckling driven by compressive in-plane stress with  $h_{\rm f} \ll h_{\rm s}$  and  $E_{\rm f} > E_{\rm s}$ . The buckling wavelength  $\lambda$  is proportional to film modulus  $E_{\rm b}$  and the density of localization events  $\langle N \rangle$ , equivalent to  $1/\langle d \rangle$ , is inversely proportional to yield stress,  $\sigma_{\rm y}$ . (b) Representative  $\langle N \rangle - \varepsilon$  data for thin film PS (108 kDa,  $\sim$ 100 nm) exhibiting crazing and linear increase of localization events with strain. (c, d) Images from optical microscopy showing formation of crazes in the PS thin film with simultaneous periodic wrinkling. (e) TEM image showing craze formation within the localization event.

brief, a glassy thin film with thickness,  $h_{\theta}$  is transferred onto a soft elastomer substrate with thickness,  $h_s$ , such that  $h_f/h_s \ll 1$  and  $E_f/E_s \gg 1$ . Wrinkles with a well-defined wavelength  $(\lambda)$  appear parallel to an applied uniaxial tensile strain,  $\varepsilon$ , due to the transverse elastic compressive strain of the incompressible substrate. After a critical buckling strain,  $\lambda$ , is related to the plane strain modulus in the film,  $\hat{E}_{\theta}$  and of the substrate,  $\hat{E}_{s}$ , by

$$\hat{E}_{\rm f} = 3\hat{E}_{\rm s} \left(\frac{\lambda}{2\pi h_{\rm f}}\right)^3 \tag{3}$$

where  $\hat{E} = E/(1-\nu^2)$  and  $\nu$  is Poisson's ratio, approximated as  $\nu_s = 0.5$  and  $\nu_f = 0.34$  for the PDMS substrate and thin film coating, respectively. <sup>41,46</sup> In concert, the supported thin film exhibits cracks orthogonal to the strain direction. The local stress relief in the supported film at a fracture leads to additional fracture events with increased applied strain,  $\varepsilon$ . The average film segment length,  $\langle d \rangle$ , exhibits a power law dependence with applied strain,  $\langle d \rangle = c\overline{\varepsilon}^{\beta}$ , where  $\beta \sim -1$  defines the regime of stable segment bisection. Here, Bazhenov et al. showed that <sup>47</sup>

$$\langle d \rangle = \frac{2h_{\rm f}\sigma^*}{E_{\rm s}\varepsilon} \tag{4}$$

where  $\sigma^*$  is the critical localization stress. The thin film is adhered to the substrate through van der Waals forces, and no debonding is noticed in the loading regime of interest. Uniform wrinkling pattern and the absence of bubbles further confirm sufficient adhesion in this craze growth regime. Mechanical modeling confirms that if the supported film exhibited perfectly plastic behavior (i.e.,  $\sigma(\varepsilon) = \sigma_v = \sigma^*$  for  $\varepsilon >$  $\varepsilon_{\rm y}$  where  $\sigma_{\rm y}$  and  $\varepsilon_{\rm y}$  are the yield stress and strain), only one localization event would occur (see the Supporting Information for details, specifically Figures S3-S5). However, modeling indicated that sequential localization events in the supported film also occur if softening after yield is more than 10%. In other words, complete stress relief, such as by fracture, is not necessary for power law scaling of localization events with applied strain. Such softening is seen in both PS and PGN thin films where crazes dominate the localization events orthogonal to the strain direction (Supporting Information). This is consistent with reports by Li et al. of thin metal films on elastomer substrates<sup>48</sup> and likely the deformation modes observed by Stafford et al. for PS thin films. 49,50 For plasticity and failure, the advantage of an approach such as WCM relative to other thin film techniques (blister, indentation, liquid-supported tensile deformation) $^{51-54}$  is the statistical quality of the data derived from a larger number of independent localization events. Details of WCM measurements and supporting data analysis are provided in the Supporting Information.

Figure 5 summarizes the Young's moduli of  $Fe_3O_4$ -PS. Note that the average PS modulus ( $E_f = 3.6$  GPa, Figure S6a)

**Figure 5.** (a) Elastic modulus of  $Fe_3O_4$ -PS PGNs as a function of molecular weight determined by WCM (elastic modulus of PS determined by WCM; the volume fraction of  $Fe_3O_4$ ,  $\phi$ , for each PGN, is provided as reference). (b) Prediction of effective Young's modulus from Hashin–Shtrikman (HS) lower bound (dotted blue line) for a range of PGN inorganic volume fractions studied (gray).

determined by WCM agrees with available bulk data ( $E_{PS}$  =  $(E_{PS} = 2.6 - 4.2)$  GPa, Figure S6a).  $(E_{PS} = 4.2)$  Similar to these prior reports of thin film PS, the thin film moduli do not show any appreciable molecular weight or thickness dependence across the parameter space examined (50 nm < h<sub>f</sub> < 300 nm, 108 kDa < MW < 579 kDa). Such Young's modulus dependencies occur when PS film thickness is less than 25-40 nm. 49,53,54 The average modulus for Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS,  $E_{\rm f} \approx 4.0$  GPa (Figure 5a and Figure S6b), compares well to previous measurements of SiO<sub>2</sub>-PS PGNs. 32,58 In Figure 5b, the Hashin-Shtrikman (HS) second-order lower bound, a predictive model for effective Young's modulus in particulate reinforced matrices, is computed assuming  $E_{\rm m}$  = 3.6 GPa,  $v_{\rm m}$  = 0.34,  $E_{\rm p}$  = 175 GPa, and  $v_p = 0.37$ , where the subscripts m and p refer to the matrix (PS) and particulate (Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>) phase, respectively. The range of core volume ratios for these molecular weight PGN thin films as reported in Table 1 (3.3-5.1%) is highlighted in Figure 5b, where good validation is achieved in agreement with effective media theory. Details of effective medium theory are provided in the Supporting Information.

Figure 6a compares the critical stress of localization, i.e., yield stress, for PS and Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS. We use the term yield stress

**Figure 6.** (a) Local craze yield stress determined from crack bisection theory for Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS PGNs exhibits lower average yield stress than PS (yield stress of PS determined by WCM; the volume fraction of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>,  $\phi$ , for each PGN, is provided as reference). (b) Single particle unit cell simulation with core volume of 4%. The first principal stress distribution is shown at a uniaxial macroscopic strain of  $\overline{\varepsilon}_{yy} = 0.354\%$ , corresponding to a volume-averaged, or macroscopic, stress,  $\overline{\sigma}_{yy} = 13.8$  MPa.

here to denote the stress at which reversible linear elastic behavior halts through evidence of craze formation. Given the nearly uniaxial tensile loading conditions on the films, it is expected that crazes will be the dominant irreversible deformation mechanism, and the yield stress computed from eq 4 corresponds to the craze initiation yield stress. The yield stress of PS for our parameter space is 30.9 MPa (individual measurements provided in Figure S10a). Our PS measurements ( $1\times10^{-4}~\rm s^{-1}$ ) agree favorably with a recent report of crazing yield stress ( $25-28~\rm MPa$ ) in the same thickness range and similar strain rate ( $2\times10^{-4}~\rm s^{-1}$ ). The slight deviation is likely due to the differences in experimental testing method (WCM vs liquid-supported tensile deformation). One other recent report by Crosby et al. reports increased yield stresses ( $40-60~\rm MPa$ ) for similar PS samples; while the exact source of the deviation is unknown, those experiments were done at a much higher strain rate ( $77\times10^{-4}~\rm s^{-1}$ ), and it is well documented that increases in strain rates by just an order of magnitude cause increased yield stresses.

The local craze yield stress for Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS (13.7 MPa) is decreased relative to PS (30.9 MPa). Note that the range of thicknesses (100-300 nm) examined is greater than the  $R_g$ (<50 nm) at all molecular weights for both PS and PGNs. The yield properties were thickness independent; thus, film confinement is unlikely a factor at any of the relevant graft molecular weights. Finite element simulations were performed to explore the effect of stress concentrations (near stiff particles) on the observed macroscopic craze initiation stress, and details of these linear elastic simulations are provided in the Supporting Information. The first principal stress, i.e., largest normal stress, in these simulations is identified as a key metric knowing that crazing is a tensile-induced deformation mechanism. Briefly, uniaxial tension simulations of a single particle unit cell (4% particle volume) were performed while iteratively varying the applied macroscopic strain  $\overline{\varepsilon}_{vv} = \int \varepsilon_{vv} dV$ until a maximum first principal stress of 30.9 GPa was detected (craze yield stress for PS). The resulting distribution of the first principal stress for  $\overline{\varepsilon}_{yy} = 0.00354$  (corresponding to state when maximum first principal stress is 30.9 GPa) is presented in Figure 6b. The volume-averaged, or macroscopic, stress at this strain state is  $\overline{\sigma}_{yy}$  = 13.8 MPa, which is in excellent agreement with the experimentally obtained average yield stress of 13.7 MPa for the PGN thin films. A reduced macroscopic yield stress implies cavitation, or nucleation of voids, occurs more readily in the PGN than in linear PS due to stress concentration created by the stiff PGN inclusion. Robbins et al. argued based on simulations that such a reduction may arise due to a reduced segment density at or near the NP surface, which reduces the activation energy for cavity nucleation relative to the bulk.<sup>30</sup> To separate the effect of a weak interface, segment heterogeneities, and local stress concentrations, exploration of orientational dependence of yield stress of PGNs with lattice order will be necessary.

Thin film crazing of PGN and PS ( $\sim$ 20 nm) was qualitatively assessed using the copper grid technique developed by Kramer et al. <sup>25,61</sup> (Figure 7 and Figure S13). A clear crack-to-craze transition is observed as molecular weight increases for Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS PGNs. Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS35 and Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS61 (Figure 7a) crack while very fine fibrils appear in the film of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS111 (Figure 7c), implying that the grafted chains are beginning to entangle. As molecular weight further increases, sheets begin to form and the crazes widen (Figure 7e). Above 200 kDa, deformation zones are seen (Figure 7g). Overall, the craze structure is qualitatively similar to the homopolymer at comparable molecular weights (Figure 7b,d,f,h). Recall that craze microstructure of PS is known to depend on film thickness. <sup>62,63</sup> Above a critical film thickness ( $h_{\rm f,c} \sim 100$  nm), crazing consists of a network of fibrils with a characteristics size ( $D_0$ ) on the order of 10 nm (3D crazes). Below  $h_{\rm f,c}$  such as in

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 7. TEM micrographs of PGN thin films (~20 nm thick) under tensile deformation showing (a) cracking for 61 kDa grafts, (c) narrow crazing for 111 kDa grafts, and (e, g) mature, wide crazing as molecular weight and hence entanglements increase. (b, d, f, g) PS thin films (~20 nm thick) showing comparable craze morphology to the PGN films of comparable molecular weight. Additional PGN micrographs are provided in the Supporting Information.

Figure 7 and Figure S13, craze microstructure resembles a 2D neck or thin sheet with in-plane, periodic variations of thickness ( $\Lambda_0 \sim 50{-}150$  nm for PS) that resemble superimposed fibrils. As thickness decreases, perforations (elongated holes) of the neck increase.

These microstructure observations in comparison to prior reports point out two critical length scales for PGNs relative to dissipative deformation of matrix free assemblies: (1) relative size between PGN and craze microstructure and (2) optimal architecture of the PGN to maximize near-neighbor entanglements at a given brush length. Close examination of Figure 7 shows that the nanoparticles are incorporated into the craze structure rather than piling up at the interface. This observation is consistent with our other silica-based polymer

grafted nanoparticle assemblies studied under high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM), where NPs  $(r_0 = 9 \text{ nm})$  were incorporated into the fibrils, even exhibiting cross-fibrils. 64,65 This contrasts the behavior reported by Choi et al. in higher graft density, larger PGNs ( $r_0 = 10-75$  nm silica) where NPs were excluded from the craze region.<sup>32</sup> The pileup of NPs at the craze boundary at intermediate stages impeded chains drawing into the fibrils, fundamentally altering high-strain characteristics by increasing chain friction and the stress necessary to widen the craze. The difference between Figure 7, the HAADF-STEM observations, and Choi et al. suggests that the plastic response (fracture or crazing) of PGNs depends not only on the length of the grafted chain but on the overall PGN architecture (NP size, graft density, and molecular weight). Thus, a critical PGN size,  $r_X$ , should exist relative to the thickness-dependent, critical length of the craze microstructure that separates inclusion and exclusion of the PGN from the craze:  $2r_X \sim D_0$  or  $\Lambda_0$ . Inclusion should lead to greater craze extensibility and overall deformability. It is unclear at this point if  $r_X$  coincides with the rigid nanoparticle core,  $r_0$ , or the stiff, unentangled CPB radius,  $r_{\rm c}$ .

To understand the second critical length scale, Figure 8 compares the relative toughness of these low-graft density,

**Figure 8.** Deformability relative to 267 kDa PS of low graft density  ${\rm Fe_3O_4\text{-PS}}$  PGNs (this work, filled spheres) and high graft density  ${\rm SiO_2\text{-PS}}$  PGNs (Bockstaller, open triangles). Experimental data are depicted as nondimensionalized PGN curvature  $(r_0\Sigma^{0.5})$  and normalized polymer graft molecular weight with respect to the entanglement density  $(N/N_{\rm e})$   $(N_{\rm e}=125;M_{\rm e}\sim13~{\rm kDa})^{.24}$  Given the sparsity of data and different mechanical characterization techniques, the normalized deformability is grouped into three classes: brittle (red:  $K_{1c}/K^0_{1c}<0.35$ , cracking), weak (mustard:  $0.4 < K_{1c}/K^0_{1c}<1$ , narrow crazes), and deformable (blue:  $K_{1c}/K^0_{1c}>1$ , wide crazes). The dashed line separates PGNs that crack from those that support crazes; its functional form is consistent with distortion of chain conformations at high and low  $r_0\Sigma_0^{0.5}$ .

small core PS-based PGNs to that available for densely grafted PS-based PGNs determined from nanoindentation. The extent of near-neighbor entanglements at a given molecular weight will be related to the conformation of the grafted chains, which can be expressed as the normalized graft length  $(N/N_{\rm e})$  versus the nondimensionalized radius of curvature  $(r_0\Sigma^{0.5})$ . Note that this parameter is inversely related to the curvature; i.e., lower values signify a larger curvature, and

<span id="page-6-0"></span>higher values signify a more planar surface. Given the sparsity of data and different mechanical characterization techniques, the data are normalized to a polystyrene benchmark at which crazing is expected to be molecular weight independent (~267 kDa PS) as predicted by Kramer et al. Furthermore, they are grouped into three classes: brittle (red:  $K_{1c}/K^0_{1c}$  < 0.35, cracking), weak (mustard: 0.4 <  $K_{1c}/K^0_{1c}$  < 1, narrow crazes), and deformable (blue:  $K_{1c}/K^0_{1c}$  > 1, wide crazes).

Overall, the available data imply an intermediate nondimensionalized curvature of  $3 < r_0 \Sigma^{0.5} < 6$  where deformability occurs for a minimal graft length. Although the data are sparse, an optimal curvature is consistent with distortion of chain conformations at high and low  $r_0 \Sigma_0^{0.5}$ . As the Ohno model for  $r_c$  points out, graft length must increase to support peripheral entanglements in the SDPB regime as  $r_0 \Sigma^{0.5}$ increases toward a planar surface  $(\to \infty)$ . Specifically, increasing  $r_0 \Sigma_0^{0.5}$  causes chain stretching as well as an increase of the distance from the graft point at which the local chain volume increases sufficiently to enable relaxation of these confirmations (i.e.,  $r_c$ ). Increasing  $N/N_e$  with  $r_0 \Sigma^{0.5}$  is consistent with Schmitt et al., 58 where an increase in toughness was attributed to crazing at  $N-N_{\rm c}>2N_{\rm e}$ , where  $N_{\rm c}$  was defined as a function of graft density and nanoparticle radius. On the other hand, as  $r_0 \Sigma^{0.5}$  decreases toward a point  $(\rightarrow 0)$ , chain conformation approaches that of a star polymer. Crowding at the arm junction reduces configurational entropy and thus increases the entanglement molecular weight of an arm. <sup>66</sup> Additionally, at extreme curvature but finite  $r_0$ , Gaussian conformations of a small number of grafts must distort toward the particle surface to satisfy packing constraints. These spacefilling requirements also disturb the chain conformation 44,45 analogous to ultrathin polymer films.<sup>67</sup> These qualitative arguments imply an intermediate nondimensionalized curvature where grafted chain configurations approach that of the bulk, thereby maximizing entanglement density and plasticity at a minimum graft length. The crazing onset from the available data for PS-PGNs appears to occur between 4Ne and 6N<sub>e</sub>. Many factors beyond these simple arguments will impact intra- and intercanopy entanglements and thus deformability. In addition to  $r_0$ ,  $\Sigma$ , and N, local NP order and distribution of interstitial space within the assembly will alter entanglement density. Nevertheless, a graft density that minimizes graft molecular weight should exist based on entropic considerations (Figure 1).

#### CONCLUSIONS

Ascertaining the constraints on PGN architecture imposed by satisfactory mechanical performance is crucial to developing these materials for numerous applications. To complement prior reports of matrix free PGN assemblies with large core and graft density, we examined PGNs assemblies of small core and low graft density (Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-PS PGNs:  $r_0 = 3.85$  nm,  $\Sigma < 0.15$ chains/nm<sup>2</sup>). The brush scaling of these sparsely grafted PGNs agreed favorably with solution PGN models in good solvents (toluene) confirming SDPB canopies  $(r_c \le r_0)$ . As anticipated, such relaxed solution conformations enabled extensive entanglement between neighoring PGNs and continuous assemblies. Modulus (E) and yield stress ( $\sigma_{v}$ ) were independent of film thickness (70 <  $h_{\rm f}$  < 250 nm), confirming observations were not perturbed by surface confinement.  $E_{\rm PGN}/E_{\rm PS} \approx 1.11$  and  $\sigma_{\rm y,PGN}/\sigma_{\rm y,PS} \approx 0.44$ , which are in good agreement with effective medium theory (Hashin-Shtrikman (HS) lower bound) and local stress enhancement due to the

different moduli of the nanoparticle and PS. Similar to pure PS, a transition from brittle fracture to crazing occurs for grafts >110 kDa, and stable craze extension is seen above 200 kDa. From these experiments, two critical length scales are deduced that bound deformability of matrix free PGN assemblies. First, undeformable PGN core should be less than the critical length scale of the craze microstructure to avoid nanoparticle jamming at the craze boundary. Second, the minimum chain length to form near-neighbor entanglements occurs at intermediate graft densities ( $r_0 \Sigma^{0.5} \sim 3-6$  and  $N/N_e \sim 4-6$ ).

In general, additional experimental studies and simulations are necessary to refine these relationships. For example, optimizing yield strength necessitates a more complete understanding of the relative impact of the strength of the nanoparticle-polymer interface, an increased propensity for cavitation due to inhomogeneities in segment density surrounding the nanoparticle, and the role of local stress concentration due to the different moduli of the constituents. Enhancing mechanical energy dissipation and toughness requires additional insight into how PGN architecture alters entanglement between adjacent PGNs, determines mass redistribution within the matrix free assembly, and alters the processes dominating homogeneous and heterogeneous modes of deformation in the entangled canopies specifically surrounding ordered assemblies. The critical length scales at the craze boundary and for near-neighbor entanglements are clear from both empirical and thermodynamic arguments, but more directed synthesis in conjunction with theoretical modeling is necessary to refine this data. Because of the extensive design space of matrix free PGN assemblies, which in addition to  $r_0$ ,  $\Sigma$ , and N includes polymer chemistry, mixed chain canopies, mixed PGN assemblies, ordered morphologies in inorganic cores, alignment of anisotropic PGNs, etc., this expanded fundamental understanding is necessary to determine optimized designs which simultaneously maximizes inorganic volume fraction, polymeric processability, and mechanical robustness.

### ASSOCIATED CONTENT

#### **S** Supporting Information

The Supporting Information is available free of charge on the ACS Publications website at DOI: 10.1021/acs.macromol.8b01524.

Morphological characterization of solid state as-cast PGN assemblies (TEM and SAXS); bilayer continuum simulations with variant constitutive models for ductile materials; additional details relating to the elastic properties of nanoscale PS and PGN bilayer thin films, bilayer craze density analysis, and effective medium theory analysis; and additional micrographs of PGN film crazing under TEM (PDF)

#### AUTHOR INFORMATION

# **Corresponding Author**

\*(R.A.V.) E-mail richard.vaia@us.af.mil; Ph 937-255-9209.

ORCID

Ming-Siao Hsiao: 0000-0001-9319-653X Richard A. Vaia: 0000-0003-4589-3423

#### Notes

The authors declare no competing financial interest.

## <span id="page-7-0"></span>ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The research was graciously supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR) and the Air Force Research Laboratory's Materials and Manufacturing Directorate.

### REFERENCES

- (1) Srivastava, S.; Choudhury, S.; Agrawal, A.; Archer, L. A. Self-Suspended Polymer Grafted Nanoparticles. *Curr. Opin. Chem. Eng.* **2017**, *16*, 92–101.
- (2) Kumar, S. K.; Benicewicz, B. C.; Vaia, R. A.; Winey, K. I. 50th Anniversary Perspective: Are Polymer Nanocomposites Practical for Applications? *Macromolecules* **2017**, *50* (3), 714–731.
- (3) Fernandes, N. J.; Koerner, H.; Giannelis, E. P.; Vaia, R. A. Hairy Nanoparticle Assemblies as One-Component Functional Polymer Nanocomposites: Opportunities and Challenges. *MRS Commun.* **2013**, 3 (1), 13–29.
- (4) Fernandes, N. J.; Wallin, T. J.; Vaia, R. A.; Koerner, H.; Giannelis, E. P. Nanoscale Ionic Materials. *Chem. Mater.* **2014**, *26*, 84–96.
- (5) Che, J.; Park, K.; Grabowski, C. A.; Jawaid, A.; Kelley, J.; Koerner, H.; Vaia, R. A. Preparation of Ordered Monolayers of Polymer Grafted Nanoparticles: Impact of Architecture, Concentration, and Substrate Surface Energy. *Macromolecules* **2016**, 49 (5), 1834—1847.
- (6) Chen, J.; Fasoli, A.; Cushen, J. D.; Wan, L.; Ruiz, R. Self-Assembly and Directed Assembly of Polymer Grafted Nanocrystals via Solvent Annealing. *Macromolecules* **2017**, *50* (24), 9636–9646.
- (7) Mueggenburg, K. E.; Lin, X. M.; Goldsmith, R. H.; Jaeger, H. M. Elastic Membranes of Close-Packed Nanoparticle Arrays. *Nat. Mater.* **2007**, *6* (9), 656–660.
- (8) Tam, E.; Podsiadlo, P.; Shevchenko, E.; Ogletree, D. F.; Delplancke-Ogletree, M. P.; Ashby, P. D. Mechanical Properties of Face-Centered Cubic Supercrystals of Nanocrystals. *Nano Lett.* **2010**, *10* (7), 2363–2367.
- (9) Che, J.; Jawaid, A.; Grabowski, C. A.; Yi, Y. J.; Louis, G. C.; Ramakrishnan, S.; Vaia, R. A. Stability of Polymer Grafted Nanoparticle Monolayers: Impact of Architecture and Polymer-Substrate Interactions on Dewetting. ACS Macro Lett. 2016, 5 (12), 1369–1374.
- (10) Grabowski, C. A.; Fillery, S. P.; Koerner, H.; Tchoul, M.; Drummy, L.; Beier, C. W.; Brutchey, R. L.; Durstock, M. F.; Vaia, R. A. Dielectric Performance of High Permitivity Nanocomposites: Impact of Polystyrene Grafting on BaTiO 3 and TiO 2. *Nanocomposites* **2016**, 2 (3), 117–124.
- (11) Chizari, K.; Daoud, M. A.; Ravindran, A. R.; Therriault, D. 3D Printing of Highly Conductive Nanocomposites for the Functional Optimization of Liquid Sensors. *Small* **2016**, *12* (44), 6076–6082.
- (12) Bilchak, C. R.; Buenning, E.; Asai, M.; Zhang, K.; Durning, C. J.; Kumar, S. K.; Huang, Y.; Benicewicz, B. C.; Gidley, D. W.; Cheng, S.; et al. Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticle Membranes with Controllable Free Volume. *Macromolecules* **2017**, *50* (18), 7111–7120.
- (13) Choudhury, S.; Mangal, R.; Agrawal, A.; Archer, L. A. A Highly Reversible Room-Temperature Lithium Metal Battery Based on Crosslinked Hairy Nanoparticles. *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 10101.
- (14) Khabibullin, A.; Fullwood, E.; Kolbay, P.; Zharov, I. Reversible Assembly of Tunable Nanoporous Materials from "Hairy" Silica Nanoparticles. *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2014**, *6* (19), 17306–17312.
- (15) Daoud, M.; Cotton, J. P. Star Shaped Polymers: A Model for the Conformation and Its Concentration Dependence. *J. Phys. (Paris)* **1982**, 43 (3), 531–538.
- (16) Wijmans, C. M.; Zhulina, E. B. Polymer Brushes at Curved Surfaces. *Macromolecules* **1993**, *26* (26), 7214–7224.
- (17) Ohno, K.; Morinaga, T.; Takeno, S.; Tsujii, Y.; Fukuda, T. Suspensions of Silica Particles Grafted with Concentrated Polymer Brush: A New Family of Colloidal Crystals. *Macromolecules* **2006**, 39 (3), 1245–1249.

(18) Ethier, J. G.; Hall, L. M. Modeling Individual and Pairs of Adsorbed Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticles: Structure and Entanglements. *Soft Matter* **2018**, *14* (4), 643–652.

- (19) Choi, J.; Hui, C. M.; Schmitt, M.; Pietrasik, J.; Margel, S.; Matyjazsewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R. Effect of Polymer-Graft Modification on the Order Formation in Particle Assembly Structures. *Langmuir* **2013**, *29* (21), 6452–6459.
- (20) Goel, V.; Pietrasik, J.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Krishnamoorti, R. Linear Viscoelasticity of Polymer Tethered Highly Grafted Nanoparticles. ACS Symp. Ser. 2009, 1023 (20), 257–267.
- (21) Yang, G.; Kim, K.; Wang, W.; Chen, B.; Mattoussi, H.; Hallinan, D. T. Scaling Laws for Polymer Chains Grafted onto Nanoparticles. *Macromol. Chem. Phys.* **2018**, 219 (8), 1700417.
- (22) Hoy, R. S.; Robbins, M. O. Strain Hardening of Polymer Glasses: Effect of Entanglement Density, Temperature, and Rate. *J. Polym. Sci., Part B: Polym. Phys.* **2006**, 44 (24), 3487–3500.
- (23) Liu, Z.; Li, X.; Zheng, Y.; Wang, S. Q.; Tsige, M. Chain Network: Key to the Ductile Behavior of Polymer Glasses. *Macromolecules* **2018**, *51* (5), 1666–1673.
- (24) Fetters, L. J.; Lohse, D. J.; Richter, D.; Witten, T. A.; Zirkel, A. Connection between Polymer Molecular Weight, Density, Chain Dimensions, and Melt Viscoelastic Properties. *Macromolecules* **1994**, 27 (17), 4639–4647.
- (25) Yang, A. C. M.; Kramer, E. J.; Kuo, C. C.; Phoenix, S. L. Craze Fibril Stability and Breakdown in Polystyrene. *Macromolecules* **1986**, 19 (7), 2010–2019.
- (26) Kumar, S. K.; Jouault, N.; Benicewicz, B.; Neely, T. Nanocomposites with Polymer Grafted Nanoparticles. *Macromolecules* **2013**, *46* (9), 3199–3214.
- (27) Lee, J. Y.; Zhang, Q.; Emrick, T.; Crosby, A. J. Nanoparticle Alignment and Repulsion during Failure of Glassy Polymer Nanocomposites. *Macromolecules* **2006**, *39* (21), 7392–7396.
- (28) Lee, J. Y.; Zhang, Q.; Wang, J. Y.; Emrick, T.; Crosby, A. J. Failure Mechanism of Glassy Polymer-Nanoparticle Composites. *Macromolecules* **2007**, *40* (17), 6406–6412.
- (29) Toepperwein, G. N.; De Pablo, J. J. Cavitation and Crazing in Rod-Containing Nanocomposites. *Macromolecules* **2011**, *44* (13), 5498–5509
- (30) Meng, D.; Kumar, S. K.; Ge, T.; Robbins, M. O.; Grest, G. S. Crazing of Nanocomposites with Polymer-Tethered Nanoparticles. *J. Chem. Phys.* **2016**, *145* (9), 094902.
- (31) Hamer, M. J.; Iyer, B. V. S.; Yashin, V. V.; Balazs, A. C. Designing Mechanomutable Composites: Reconfiguring the Structure of Nanoparticle Networks through Mechanical Deformation. *Nano Lett.* **2014**, *14* (8), 4745–4750.
- (32) Choi, J.; Hui, C. M.; Pietrasik, J.; Dong, H.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R. Toughening Fragile Matter: Mechanical Properties of Particle Solids Assembled from Polymer-Grafted Hybrid Particles Synthesized by ATRP. *Soft Matter* **2012**, *8* (15), 4072.
- (33) Ginzburg, V. V. Modeling the Morphology and Phase Behavior of One-Component Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticle Systems. *Macromolecules* **2017**, *50* (23), 9445–9455.
- (34) Zhang, T.; Mbanga, B. L.; Yashin, V. V.; Balazs, A. C. Effects of Morphology on the Mechanical Properties of Heterogeneous Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticle Networks. *Mol. Syst. Des. Eng.* **2017**, 2, 490–499.
- (35) Malescio, G.; Pellicane, G. Stripe Phases from Isotropic Repulsive Interactions. *Nat. Mater.* **2003**, 2 (2), 97–100.
- (36) Koerner, H.; Drummy, L. F.; Benicewicz, B.; Li, Y.; Vaia, R. A. Nonisotropic Self-Organization of Single-Component Hairy Nanoparticle Assemblies. *ACS Macro Lett.* **2013**, 2 (8), 670–676.
- (37) Lafitte, T.; Kumar, S. K.; Panagiotopoulos, A. Z. Self-Assembly of Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticles in Thin Films. *Soft Matter* **2014**, *10* (5), 786–794.
- (38) Choi, J.; Dong, H.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R. Flexible Particle Array Structures by Controlling Polymer Graft Architecture. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 12537.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>(39) Sun, S.; Zeng, H.; Robinson, D. B.; Raoux, S.; Rice, P. M.; Wang, S. X.; Li, G. Monodisperse MFe <sup>2</sup> O <sup>4</sup> (M = Fe, Co, Mn) Nanoparticles. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126 (1), 273−279.

- (40) Jiao, Y.; Akcora, P. Accelerated Brush Growth on Nanoparticle Surfaces by Reversible Addition-Fragmentation Chain Transfer Polymerization. J. Polym. Sci., Part A: Polym. Chem. 2014, 52 (12), 1700−1705.
- (41) Chung, J. Y.; Nolte, A. J.; Stafford, C. M. Surface Wrinkling: A Versatile Platform for Measuring Thin-Film Properties. Adv. Mater. 2011, 23 (3), 349−368.
- (42) Dukes, D.; Li, Y.; Lewis, S.; Benicewicz, B.; Schadler, L.; Kumar, S. K. Conformational Transitions of Spherical Polymer Brushes: Synthesis, Characterization, and Theory. Macromolecules 2010, 43 (3), 1564−1570.
- (43) Milner, S. T.; Witten, T. A.; Cates, M. E. Theory of the Grafted Polymer Brush. Macromolecules 1988, 21 (8), 2610−2619.
- (44) Chremos, A.; Douglas, J. F. Self-Assembly of Polymer-Grafted Nanoparticles in Solvent-Free Conditions. Soft Matter 2016, 12 (47), 9527−9537.
- (45) Jiao, Y.; Akcora, P. Assembly of Polymer-Grafted Magnetic Nanoparticles in Polymer Melts. Macromolecules 2012, 45 (8), 3463− 3470.
- (46) Stafford, C. M.; Harrison, C.; Beers, K. L.; Karim, A.; Amis, E. J.; Vanlandingham, M. R.; Kim, H. C.; Volksen, W.; Miller, R. D.; Simonyi, E. E. A Buckling-Based Metrology for Measuring the Elastic Moduli of Polymeric Thin Films. Nat. Mater. 2004, 3 (8), 545−550.
- (47) Bazhenov, S. L.; Volynskii, A. L.; Alexandrov, V. M.; Bakeev, N. F. Two Mechanisms of the Fragmentation of Thin Coatings on Rubber Substrates. J. Polym. Sci., Part B: Polym. Phys. 2002, 40 (1), 10−18.
- (48) Li, T.; Huang, Z.; Suo, Z.; Lacour, S. P.; Wagner, S. Stretchability of Thin Metal Films on Elastomer Substrates. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2004, 85 (16), 3435−3437.
- (49) Lee, J. H.; Chung, J. Y.; Stafford, C. M. Effect of Confinement on Stiffness and Fracture of Thin Amorphous Polymer Films. ACS Macro Lett. 2012, 1 (1), 122−126.
- (50) Chung, J. Y.; Lee, J. H.; Beers, K. L.; Stafford, C. M. Stiffness, Strength, and Ductility of Nanoscale Thin Films and Membranes: A Combined Wrinkling-Cracking Methodology. Nano Lett. 2011, 11 (8), 3361−3365.
- (51) Huang, C. K.; Lou, W. M.; Tsai, C. J.; Wu, T. C.; Lin, H. Y. Mechanical Properties of Polymer Thin Film Measured by the Bulge Test. Thin Solid Films 2007, 515 (18), 7222−7226.
- (52) Li, M.; Carter, C. B.; Gerberich, W. W. Nanoindentation Measurements of Mechanical Properties of Polystyrene Thin Films. MRS Online Proc. Libr. 2000, 649, 1−6.
- (53) Liu, Y.; Chen, Y. C.; Hutchens, S.; Lawrence, J.; Emrick, T.; Crosby, A. J. Directly Measuring the Complete Stress-Strain Response of Ultrathin Polymer Films. Macromolecules 2015, 48 (18), 6534− 6540.
- (54) Hasegawa, H.; Ohta, T.; Ito, K.; Yokoyama, H. Stress-Strain Measurement of Ultra-Thin Polystyrene Films: Film Thickness and Molecular Weight Dependence of Crazing Stress. Polymer 2017, 123, 179−183.
- (55) Wypych, G. Handbook of Polymers, 2nd ed.; 2016.
- (56) Bay, R. K.; Shimomura, S.; Liu, Y.; Ilton, M.; Crosby, A. J. Confinement Effect on Strain Localizations in Glassy Polymer Films. Macromolecules 2018, 51 (10), 3647−3653.
- (57) Stafford, C. M.; Vogt, B. D.; Harrison, C.; Julthongpiput, D.; Huang, R. Elastic Moduli of Ultrathin Amorphous Polymer Films. Macromolecules 2006, 39 (15), 5095−5099.
- (58) Schmitt, M.; Choi, J.; Hui, C. M.; Chen, B.; Korkmaz, E.; Yan, J.; Margel, S.; Ozdoganlar, O. B.; Matyjaszewski, K.; Bockstaller, M. R. Processing Fragile Matter: Effect of Polymer Graft Modification on the Mechanical Properties and Processibility of (Nano-) Particulate Solids. Soft Matter 2016, 12 (15), 3527−3537.
- (59) Richeton, J.; Ahzi, S.; Vecchio, K. S.; Jiang, F. C.; Adharapurapu, R. R. Influence of Temperature and Strain Rate on the Mechanical Behavior of Three Amorphous Polymers: Character-

ization and Modeling of the Compressive Yield Stress. Int. J. Solids Struct. 2006, 43 (7−8), 2318−2335.

- (60) Li, X.; Wang, S. Q. Mapping Brittle and Ductile Behaviors of Polymeric Glasses under Large Extension. ACS Macro Lett. 2015, 4 (10), 1110−1113.
- (61) Kramer, E. J. Craze Fibril Formation and Breakdown. Polym. Eng. Sci. 1984, 24 (10), 761−769.
- (62) Krupenkin, T. N.; Fredrickson, G. H. Crazing in Two and Three Dimensions. 1. Two-Dimensional Crazing. Macromolecules 1999, 32 (15), 5029−5035.
- (63) Krupenkin, T. N.; Fredrickson, G. H. Crazing in Two and Three Dimensions. 2. Three-Dimensional Crazing. Macromolecules 1999, 32 (15), 5036−5045.
- (64) Hsiao, M.-S.; Jiao, Y.; Vaia, R. A.; Drummy, L. F. Microscopic Characterization of Fracture Mechanisms in Polystyrene Grafted Nanoparticle Assemblies: The Role of Film Thickness and Grafting Density. Microsc. Microanal. 2016, 22 (S3), 1856−1857.
- (65) Hsiao, M.-S.; Jiao, Y.; Wheeler, R.; Lefebvre, J.; Bhowmick, S.; Vaia, R. A.; Drummy, L. F. In Situ Study of Mechanical Testing and Fracture Process of Glassy Polystyrene Grafted Nanoparticle Assembly: Impact of Film Thickness and Strain Rate. Microsc. Microanal. 2017, 23 (S1), 796−797.
- (66) Green, P. F.; Glynos, E.; Frieberg, B. Polymer Films of Nanoscale Thickness: Linear Chain and Star-Shaped Macromolecular Architectures. MRS Commun. 2015, 5 (3), 423−434.
- (67) Si, L.; Massa, M. V.; Dalnoki-Veress, K.; Brown, H. R.; Jones, R. A. L. Chain Entanglement in Thin Freestanding Polymer Films. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2005, 94, 12780.